Difficulty	Question	THE	B	C	D	Answer	Category
1	Where is the hall water located?	at the train station	the opposite	in the milk parlor	in a cave bath	B	BIOLOGY
2	What begins in the title of Sandor Rideg's novel?	the banzai	the bakterhaus	the almond	the competition	B	MOVIE
3	Which bird is called a bird of danger by folklore?	the starling	the sparrow	the cup	the black thrush	C	LANGUAGE
4	Which is the highest active volcano in Europe?	Stromboli	Hekla	Santorini	Etna	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	What was Zsuzsa Koncz's first solo hit?	The ballad of Anni Szke	Time is running out	Colored pencils	Little Flower	A	MUSIC
6	Who originally wore the anorak?	the sherpas	the Eskimos	the sheets	the Nenets	B	HISTORY
1	Zoran was a member of the band named after which vehicle in the 60s?	Electric	MONTH	Bus	Metro	D	MUSIC
2	How did Tisza gallop according to Petfi's poem?	like a raging bull	like the whirlwind	like the madman who broke his chain	like the fugitive who is being chased by the Tartar	C	LITERATURE
3	What does someone whose hobby is ikebana do?	with oriental martial arts	with flowers	with paper folding	with Japanese roosters	B	GENERAL
4	How many players are on the court at one time from a basketball team?	four	seven	six	five	D	SPORTS
5	Whose interests does UNICEF represent?	trade unions	kids	animal protectors	workers	B	GENERAL
6	What was the affectionate name given to the small curled women's hair falling on the forehead?	mischievous	kitty	curl	roll	A	GENERAL
7	In what unit is the frequency of sound measured?	in tons	in decibels	in hertz	in luxury	C	SCIENCE
8	What kind of woman does Munkacsy's well-known picture from 1873 depict?	pitcher fencer	burgundy dress	incense barrel	holding her child	C	FINE ARTS
9	What was the name of George Stephenson's first locomotive?	George	My lord	Rocket	Locomotive	B	TECHNIQUE
10	Who was the first teacher of pediatrics in Hungary?	age Janos Bokay	Pal Heim	agoston Schopf-Merei	Sandor Koranyi	A	BIOLOGY
1	What is another name for the checkerboard soldier?	obese	meeting jack	bull of a bull	cormorant	D	BIOLOGY
2	Which football player is called the "Black Pearl"?	Thuram	Pellet	Eusebio	Andy Cole	B	SPORTS
3	La Fontaine, Aisoposz, Andras Fay, Gaspar Heltai. What connects these four authors?	their place of birth	their religion	their love	the animal stories	D	GENERAL
4	Which Hungarian city is called the "city of waters"?	Siofok	Dad	Szeged	Debrecen	B	HUNGARY
5	What was the name of Paulina's love, Carlitos' father, in the series Paula and Paulina?	Paulinho	Carlos Daniel	Rodrigo	Zoro	B	GENERAL
6	What part of a dress is a pocket square?	embroidered pocket	lace frill	stiffened sleeve	lace collar	B	GENERAL
7	Our word apostle comes from the Greek word "apostolos". What is the original meaning of the word?	disciple	sent	shepherd	stone rock	B	LANGUAGE
1	Where do they fry the fried frog?	At Kovacs's	At Varga's	At Viragek	At Golya's	C	LITERATURE
2	Which of the following words is spelled incorrectly?	sigh	soil	catch	noise	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following dishes does not require potatoes?	strap-on	plum dumplings	cottage cheese dumplings	grenade cube	C	KITCHEN
4	What kind of animal is Lutra known from the story of Istvan Fekete?	beaver	otter	shrew	guinea pig	B	LITERATURE
5	Which famous pop star had the hits "Bad" and "Black Or White"?	Michael Jackson	Rod Stewart	George Michael	Elton John	A	MUSIC
6	Where does Mrs. agnes wash her sheets in the ballad of Janos Arany?	in the stream	at the well	in the Tisza	in the turtle	A	LITERATURE
7	Where were some species of freshwater leeches used in the past?	in plant breeding	in warfare	in medicine	in the art of cooking	C	BIOLOGY
8	How do I get something if I get it through a barter?	application	after multilateral bargaining	with a short-term loan	with exchange	D	GENERAL
9	Who is the Zuzu series named after?	Istvan Csok	Laszlo Paal	Bertalan Por	Istvan Sznyi	A	FINE ARTS
10	Who is the youngest Wimbledon men's tennis champion of all time?	Pete Sampras	Bjorn Borg	Stefan Edberg	Boris Becker	D	SPORTS
11	Who among the following well-known singers played themselves in Sandor Pal's film Ripacsok?	Levente Szorenyi	Tamas Somlo	Soon	Gyula Vikidal	C	MOVIE
1	How did David defeat Goliath?	He pressed it in Skander	He hit him with his spear	He nailed it	He covered it with a sling	D	RELIGION
2	What is the name of the male donkey?	kan	stallion	she's sitting	stallion	D	BIOLOGY
3	What happens to a mimosa leaf when you touch it?	it crumbles to dust	opens up	collapses	spray paint	C	BIOLOGY
4	Who among the following is the character of the folk tale Feherlofia?	Bush jumper	Tree grower	Lawnmower	Pine final	B	LITERATURE
5	Who is the famous American basketball player who appears in the RTL Klub series Mercenaries?	Jordan	Barkley	Rodman	Pippen	C	SPORTS
6	What did Ern Rubik Sr. do?	with space exploration	with aircraft construction	with toy production	with car manufacturing	B	TECHNIQUE
7	What color will litmus paper turn to acid?	yellow	green	red	blue	C	SCIENCE
1	According to the saying, what does he do who "bows his head to the yoke"?	divorce	milks a cow	gets married	tests his plow	C	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is not beef?	loin	swelling	griddle	scarf up	B	KITCHEN
3	What can we see in an open-air museum?	medal collections	means of public transport	village buildings	opera performances	C	GENERAL
4	How do you play the game called Morocco?	with dice	with a card	with chopsticks	with dominoes	C	GAME
5	Who composed the music for the musical West Side Story?	George Gershwin	Leonard Bernstein	Maurice Ravel	Nino Rota	B	MUSIC
6	Where did the British POWs build a bridge in David Lean's film?	too far	on the Zambezi	on the River Kwai	in the Expertise	C	MOVIE
7	What was the name of the Cossack military commander?	leaves	Ataman	athanasius	Ottoman	B	HISTORY
8	Which clothing material is made from the skin of a young goat?	sever	satin	suede	nubuck	A	BIOLOGY
1	Which of the following is the name of a cake?	mother tongue	Women's whim	gossip	female petal	B	KITCHEN
2	Which country was called the gift of the Nile?	Assyria	Egypt	China	Mesopotamia	B	HISTORY
3	What card does the referee show in football when giving out?	pink	yolk	red	black	C	SPORTS
4	Pal Vasarhelyi prepared a plan for the regulation of which strait?	Bering	Iron gate	Thermopylae	Gibraltarian	B	TECHNIQUE
5	Ayatollah Khomeini was the religious and political leader of which country?	Jordan	Iran	Iraq	Saudi Arabia	B	HISTORY
6	Which part of the car did Donat Banki and Janos Csonka invent?	the brake pad	the gearbox	the shock absorber	the atomizer	D	TECHNIQUE
7	Who designed Barcelona's Sagrada Família cathedral?	Fernan Cabailero	Le Corbusier	Walter Gropius	Antonio Gaudi	D	TECHNIQUE
8	What was the Spekula building of the Eger Lyceum?	casino	trading house	observatory	library	C	GENERAL
9	What is the name of the good student in Teacher Karinthy's work Please?	Wasserkopf	Frohlich	Steinmann	Bauer	C	LITERATURE
1	Which is not the suit of the French card?	spades	it's a shame	pumpkin	date	C	GAME
2	Why does a newborn baby squeeze our finger?	that's how he asks to eat	because of the grasping reflex	squeezes for us	to pay attention to it	B	BIOLOGY
3	What kind of clothing does the person in the negligee wear?	nightgown	knee breeches	little costume	shin guards	A	GENERAL
4	Which kitchen garden plant is grown for its edible flowers?	radish	celery	cauliflower	cabbage	C	KITCHEN
5	In which city was John Lennon shot?	in Los Angeles	in London	in Newyork	in Liverpool	C	MUSIC
6	Because he brought his creature to life dr. Frankenstein in the original story?	by cloning	with a kiss	by magnetic induction	with electricity	D	LITERATURE
7	Which city is part of Hollywood, the "film capital"?	Los Angeles	Las Vegas	new York	Detroit	A	MOVIE
8	What is the name of a Finno-Ugric people?	Samoyed	Sinhalese	Alemannic	honey	A	LANGUAGE
9	What is garabo called in the dialect around Kecskemet?	a winter sweater	a basket with ears	the stork	the student who studies well	B	LANGUAGE
10	In which country is the Saint Andrew fault line located?	Australia	USA	Mexico	Canada	B	GEOGRAPHY
11	Which literary newspaper was started in 1916?	People of the East	West	Today	Pest Newspaper	C	LITERATURE
12	What type of steam locomotives operated on the first Hungarian steam railway line?	English	German	American	Belgian	D	TECHNIQUE
1	"How much" is worthless?	a penny	not even a wood seller	a sheet	not even a woodworm	D	GENERAL
2	In one of the Hungarian folktales, the pasuly reaches the sky. What kind of plant is this in reality?	her fiance	puppet	gas	pea	B	BIOLOGY
3	The bones of which part of our body: the hammer, the anvil and the stirrup?	the leg	the hand	the shoulder	the ear	D	BIOLOGY
4	Where was glass insensitive to temperature changes invented?	in Munich	in Weimar	in Jena	Herend	C	TECHNIQUE
5	What is sherbet?	brown beer type	beer batter	salty beer skate	sweet fruit juice	D	KITCHEN
6	How do bats navigate at night?	with ultrasound	with their claws	with their wings	with their tail feathers	A	BIOLOGY
7	What special picture does the invention of Nobel laureate Denes Gabor create?	digital image	hologram	pictogram	snapshot	B	TECHNIQUE
8	According to KRESZ, which of the following is not considered a pedestrian?	who pushes a bicycle	who pushes a moped	who pushes a wheelbarrow	who herds animals	D	GENERAL
1	What happens to the chin of a person who remains hungry?	it falls	it wears out	he flinches	will shave	B	GENERAL
2	Which of the following "dairy products" is a plant name?	bull's milk	cottage cheese	bull butter	mallow	D	BIOLOGY
3	Where did the ancient Romans organize gladiatorial games?	in amphora	in the morning	in an amphitheater	in the gym	C	HISTORY
4	Which of the following works is attributed to Istvan Szechenyi?	About the hunters	The horse wheel	The beef roll	The double-headed eagle	B	HISTORY
5	What is the currency of Albania?	leva	lei	lek	lwei	C	COUNTRIES
6	Whose name is associated with the saying: "The die is cast"?	Socrates	Thales	Julius Caesar	Ern Rubik	C	GENERAL
7	What was the bottle used to store?	tobacco	brandy	spice	ink	B	GENERAL
8	In what style was the cathedral in Esztergom built?	Baroque	Neo-Romanian	neo-renaissance	classicist	D	ARCHITECTURE
9	What does the word "amen" at the end of the prayer mean?	it's over	to the Lord	forever	so be it	D	LANGUAGE
10	What does MTK stand for?	Hungarian Physical Education Club	Hungarian Body Exercisers' Circle	Hungarian Gymnastics Club	Circle of Hungarian Gymnasts	B	SPORTS
11	Which country does not border Brazil?	Ecuador	Guiana	Paraguay	Bolivia	A	COUNTRIES
12	Where is Bernstein's musical "West Side Story" set?	in San Francisco	in Los Angeles	in Newyork	in London	C	MUSIC
1	"What do you do" with beer, according to the title of the Fonograph group's hit?	Make up your mind!	Push it here!	Pay it out!	Send it down!	B	MUSIC
2	What is the name of the upper, horizontal wood of the door frame?	forehead tree	sofa	lintel	goal post	C	GENERAL
3	How is the robe related to justice?	the name of the judicial gavel	was a criminal instrument	the name of the judicial robe	attorney seal name	C	GENERAL
4	What do Asian peoples use junk for?	for cooking rice brandy	for shipping	for silk weaving	for making firecrackers	B	GENERAL
5	What is preserved during candiing?	with salt	with vinegar	with sugar	with alcohol	C	KITCHEN
6	Whose wife was Katinka Andrassy, the "red countess"?	Gyula Andrassy	Kalman Tisza	Mihaly Karolyi	Jozsef Eotvos	C	HISTORY
7	Which theater was the director of Major Tamas?	Madach Theater	National Theatre	Comedy theater	Pest Theater	B	THEATER
8	What kind of plant is barberry?	Moss	kind of pine	fern	mushroom	B	BIOLOGY
1	According to popular belief, where did our ancestors tenderize the meat?	under saddle	under the wheel	under a horseshoe	in a salt well	A	HISTORY
2	Who carried the party?	the wives	the unmarried	the widows	the brides	B	GENERAL
3	From which ore is aluminum produced?	made of copper	from bauxite	from iron ore	made of nickel	B	TECHNIQUE
4	What spring is in the title of the film starring Katalin Karady?	it's rainy	fatal	deadly	fool	C	MOVIE
5	In which Verdi opera is the aria beginning "Az asszony intagag" performed?	Othello	Don Carlos	Rigoletto	Traviata	C	OPERA
6	What ability does Mimicry have perks?	drought tolerance	light energy conversion	color and shape imitation	odor recognition	C	BIOLOGY
7	What is the name of the meeting of cardinals to elect a pope?	convention	concordat	congregation	conclave	D	RELIGION
8	Who played the brave Janos at the premiere of Pongrac Kacsoh's song play?	John Sardy	Sari Fedak	Blah Lujza	Ede Ujhazi	D	THEATER
9	According to KRESZ, at what speed can a moped ride on the bike path?	up to 15 km/h	up to 30 km/h	up to 20 km/h	up to 10 km/h	C	GENERAL
10	What was the first LP of the band Illes?	Kisses and slaps	Give your hand!	The road is hard	Don't cry girls!	C	MUSIC
1	What "room" do photographers work in?	sharp	sharp	dark	gloomy	C	GENERAL
2	Which animal's name matches the name of a piece of women's clothing worn around the neck?	Nandu	boa	alpaca	well	B	GENERAL
3	The Aztecs lived in the territory of which present-day state?	Guatemala	Peru	Colombia	Mexico	D	HISTORY
4	Which of the following is called a cutlet?	the adolescent chicken	the light-blooded lady	became the cot-handled one	the pork loin	D	LANGUAGE
5	Who made the first chef?	apprentices of the woodcutter's guild	the ancients	the outlaws from Bakony	the Apaches	B	HISTORY
6	Who comes into closer contact with the fourteen carat car in the Rejt novel?	Ivan Gorchev	It's Jimmy	Dusk Hopkins	the real Trebitsch	A	LITERATURE
7	Ferenc Karinthy, the excellent writer, was a leading competitor in which sport?	in water polo	in football	in tennis	in athletics	A	SPORTS
8	According to mythology, whose palace was Valhalla?	Morrigan	Krishna	Odin	Osiris	C	RELIGION
9	Which country has the most neighbors?	Russia	China	Sudan	Brazil	A	COUNTRIES
1	What did Archimedes shout when he jumped out of the bathtub when he realized his famous law?	Democracy!	Olympiad!	Anarchy!	Eureka!	D	SCIENCE
2	Which member of the Beatles wore glasses?	John Lennon	Paul McCartney	George Harrison	Ringo Starr	A	MUSIC
3	Which of the following is used to make salt?	green peas	lens	dry beans	yellow peas	C	KITCHEN
4	What was called a Spanish boot?	the shoes of the bullfighters	noble footwear	wine making tool	interrogation device	D	LANGUAGE
5	Which country is not affected by the Danube?	Bulgaria	Slovenia	Croatia	Slovakia	B	GEOGRAPHY
1	What was the famous Hungarian water bottle like?	dog hair	leather mouse	buckskin	cow udder	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of photography process takes a photo in a minute or two?	polarography	Polaroid	tomography	polder	B	TECHNIQUE
3	What Russian soldier does the band Pa-Do-Do say goodbye to?	Vladimir	Ivan	Sasa	Sergey	C	MUSIC
4	Which animal has become the symbol of Berlin?	the bull	the bear	the kangaroo	the lion	B	GENERAL
5	In which poem is the "sehonna bitang emer" mentioned?	Anthem	National song	Word	Mr Pal Pato	B	LITERATURE
6	Which famous family built a castle in Fertd?	Batthyany	Szechenyi	Esterhazy	Rakoczi	C	HUNGARY
7	What characteristic characterizes a bullish knight?	faithful	without keels	skilled	unchivalrous	C	LANGUAGE
8	Which of the following foods is called a "ball"?	the pig cheese	the hepatic loop	the goat cheese	the rye bread	A	KITCHEN
9	Which of the following is the incorrect spelling?	decoration century	assembly	clavicle	reasonable	D	LANGUAGE
10	What was the name of the ship that took the Titanic survivors on board?	Eritrea	Carpathia	Lusitania	Aurora	B	GENERAL
11	In which country is the Kalahari Desert located?	Botswana	Namibia	Zimbabwe	Republic of South Africa	A	GEOGRAPHY
12	What does the Rottweiler dog breed get its name from?	of a breed of sheep	of a color	about the name of a city	from a breeder's name	C	LANGUAGE
1	Which of the following is not a plant name?	blueberry	hawthorn	tarhonya	potato	C	BIOLOGY
2	Where does acupuncture as a medicine come from?	From China	From India	From Japan	From Egypt	A	BIOLOGY
3	Which singer played the title role in the movie "Evita"?	Diana Ross	Whitney Houston	Gloria Estefan	Madonna	D	MOVIE
4	In what architectural style was the church of the Benedictine abbey built in Jakon?	Gothic	Romanian	Renaissance	Baroque	B	ARCHITECTURE
5	Which bird can fly backwards?	stork	eagle	dove	hummingbird	D	BIOLOGY
6	Who plays Esmeralda in the popular series?	Leticia Calderon	Lucelia Santos	Salma Hayek	Imelda Marcos	A	GENERAL
7	Who set the Speech to music?	Ferenc Erkel	Mihaly Mosonyi	Egressy Beni	Ferenc Liszt	C	OPERA
8	"Here's my hand, not a pig's foot!" - says the saying. What was called a pig's foot back then?	weapon	pork leg	walking stick	gloves	A	LANGUAGE
1	Which mountain in Budapest cannot be skied on?	on Ferihegy	on Janos Hill	on Harmashatar mountain	on Szechenyi Hill	A	GENERAL
2	What do the peoples of the East use the kaftan for?	as a horse tool	as headgear	as a hookah	as a jacket	D	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following can be the base color of the tree frog?	yellow	white	green	black	C	BIOLOGY
4	In which of the following countries is the franc not the official currency?	France	Luxembourg	The Netherlands	Andorra	C	COUNTRIES
5	For which edible part is broccoli grown?	for the stem	for your letter	for its flowers	for its rootstock	C	KITCHEN
6	What is the main export item for OPEC member countries?	the fish	the crude oil	the wheat	the coffee	B	GENERAL
7	What is the name of the computer data file?	bit	file	byte	basic	B	TECHNIQUE
8	What is the title of Edvard Munch's 1939 painting of a terrified, desperate figure?	The shock	The scream	The startled horse	The face of horror	B	FINE ARTS
9	Which member of the Monty Python group guided the RTL Klub viewers around the world?	Eric Idle	John Cleese	Michael Palin	Terry Gilliam	C	GENERAL
10	What is Jimmy Zambo's original first name?	Joseph	Stephen	Imre	John	C	MUSIC
1	According to the note, how is the lattice gate painted?	to pink	at stake	to purple	to green	D	GENERAL
2	Which part of our body approaches its final size by the end of the first year of life?	our eyes	our little toe	we will	our Adam's Eve	A	BIOLOGY
3	What does the bookmaker do?	with toto tips	with roulette	with poker	with horse racing betting	D	GENERAL
4	What or who is turmeric?	Turkish delight	skin disease	Kurdish coma	herb	D	LANGUAGE
5	Whose creation is depicted in the ceiling fresco of the Sistine Chapel?	Adam	Jacob	Joseph	Noah	A	RELIGION
6	In which poem did Petfi immortalize the character of the great actor of his time, Karoly Megyeri?	Acting song	The ink bottle	In the theater	New Year's Eve in 1847	B	LITERATURE
7	In which country are the mysterious stone blocks of Stonehenge located?	in the Republic of South Africa	in England	in Australia	in Canada	B	COUNTRIES
8	Who managed the university, the legal predecessor of Eotvos Lorand University, until 1773?	Benedictines	publicists	Jesuits	Franciscans	C	RELIGION
9	What kind of minister were Gyula Andrassy the elder and the younger?	military affairs	foreign affairs	internal affairs	finance	B	HISTORY
1	What is Figaro's occupation in Rossini's opera?	jeweler	barber	rent a car	sheet music copyist	B	OPERA
2	Who or what can be seen on the four aces of the Hungarian card?	skies	military commanders	seasons	kings	C	GAME
3	What kind of beef goes into steak tartare?	steamed	raw	roast	cooked	B	KITCHEN
4	Zsigmond Moricz wrote a trilogy about which Hungarian historical area?	from the Highlands	From Transylvania	From Del Bacska	From Burgenland	B	LITERATURE
1	What kind of animals does a person with guppies keep?	jumping mice	rattlesnakes	ornamental fish	cows	C	BIOLOGY
2	Hey, which river does the wind blow from according to the folk song?	From the Danube	About Tisza	About Szamos	About Maros	A	GENERAL
3	What is made of chicory?	synthetic resin	extra coffee	wallpaper	alcohol	B	GENERAL
4	What was the predecessor of the daguerreotype?	car	photo	dynamo	telescope	B	TECHNIQUE
5	What interests the person who reads about majolica?	the spices	a game	the art of puppetry	the earthenware	D	LANGUAGE
6	Which game does not require a game board?	queen	backgammon	go	rikiki	D	GAME
7	According to popular belief, what crashed in the American Roswell in 1947?	extraterrestrial spacecraft	meteorite from mars	soviet satellite	American fighter pilot	A	GENERAL
8	Whose play is The Servant of Mr. Two?	Golden	Pirandello	Neil Simon	Moliere	A	LITERATURE
9	What was the former name of Taiwan?	Burma	Ceylon	Hi m	Formosa	D	COUNTRIES
1	Which of the following is a type of pea?	snappy	bouncy	chick	chatterbox	C	BIOLOGY
2	Which dance has the same name as a woman's dress?	tango	mazurka	bolero	rumba	C	LANGUAGE
3	What does a ship do when sailors drop anchor?	gets rid of the poty passenger	starts	anchors	shifts to a higher speed	C	GENERAL
4	What instrument did Stradivari become famous for?	piano	guitar	violin	double bass	C	OPERA
5	Which of the following ingredients is not needed in borscht?	cucumber	beetroot	cabbage	tomato	A	KITCHEN
6	What was the name of the national team captain of the Golden Team?	Rudolf Illovszky	Lajos Baroti	Gusztav Sebes	Jozsef Hoffer	C	SPORTS
7	Which is the only left tributary of the Danube in Hungary?	Tarna	For him	Ipoly	Sio	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	What is the SI unit of brightness?	candelabra	lumens	lux	farad	A	SCIENCE
1	Which of the following was the name of a man's cloak?	cop lookout	dog catcher	pig thief	cat driver	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of soft drink is made from fruit and milk?	cocktail	milkshake	his girlfriend	cramp blister	B	KITCHEN
3	What does a photogenic person look like in a photo?	unfavorably	preferably	bearable	discouragingly	B	GENERAL
4	Who wrote a world-famous novel about the tower guard of Notre Dame in Paris?	Honore de Balzac	Victor Hugo	Emile Zola	Gustave Flaubert	B	LITERATURE
5	What kind of collection is a herbarium?	plant	butterfly	stamp	coin	A	LANGUAGE
6	Who invented the kayak?	the Eskimos	the Chinese	the Dutch	the Incas	A	TECHNIQUE
7	What is the largest desert on Earth?	Greater Victoria desert	Sahara	Gobi desert	Libyan desert	B	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which celebrity's family comes from the village of Ajtos in Bekes County?	Albrecht Durer	Amerigo Tot	Tony Curtis	Richard Gere	A	GENERAL
9	Palo soup was created in honor of the author of which work?	Golden coffin	Relatives	They are gentlemen	Cat game	C	LITERATURE
10	What kind of product was their rubber first marketed in Europe?	as bicycle tires	as an eraser	as a heat insulator	as a condom	B	TECHNIQUE
11	Who developed quantum theory?	Werner Heisenberg	Erwin Schrodinger	Max Planck	Max Born	C	SCIENCE
12	What does the Karman line separate?	airspace and outer space	the stratosphere and the biosphere	continents and seas	the earth's mantle and the earth's crust	A	SCIENCE
1	What is the name of the popular card game: "Knock down ...!"	mommy	bari	sorry	baby	D	GAME
2	Complete the sentence: "Whoever gets involved in ... will be eaten by the pigs."	bran	swill	porridge	soot	A	LANGUAGE
3	What is the title of Milos Forman's film: "The cuckoo flies..."	to his son	west	to nest	with wind	C	MOVIE
4	What was the nationality of the great fairy tale writer Andersen?	Swedish	Danish	German	Dutch	B	LITERATURE
5	Who was the first drummer of the band Omega?	Janos Solti	Ferenc of Debrecen	Jozsef Laux	Oszkar Nemeth	C	MUSIC
6	Where was Minotaur's famous labyrinth?	Malta	in Cyprus	Crete	in Corsica	C	HISTORY
7	What do Turks call halva?	a kind of candy	a kind of turban	the sultan's harem	the Turkish coffee house	A	LANGUAGE
8	Who is called the "father of the hydrogen bomb"?	Ed Teller	Enrico Fermi	Robert Oppenheimer	Solid Leo	A	SCIENCE
9	Who among the following actresses did not receive an Oscar for any of their performances?	Greta Garbo	Audrey Hepburn	Olivia de Havilland	Bette Davis	A	MOVIE
1	What do we call canastha?	the khan's assistant	male model	award-winning kandur	card game	D	LANGUAGE
2	What "lady" is the title character of the work of Alexander Dumas the Younger?	aniseed	camellia	chamomile	cameo	B	LITERATURE
3	What is the name of Captain Nemo's ship?	Kon-Tiki	Mayflower	Nautilus	Santa Maria	C	LITERATURE
4	Who or what did the Trappist cheese get its name from?	about a monastic order	about a French winemaker	from a Dutch pasture	about cow breed	A	LANGUAGE
5	Which of the following is not a plant?	buttercup	lily of the valley	yew flower	a bunch	C	BIOLOGY
6	Which of the following animals is not extinct?	dinosaur	Mauritian dodo	mammoth	tapir	D	BIOLOGY
7	Which of our famous historical figures' names is spelled incorrectly?	Lajos Kossuth	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Istvan Szechenyi	Lajos Batthany	D	LANGUAGE
8	Who among the following actresses did not play Batman's partner?	Kim Basinger	Nicole Kidman	Isabella Rossellini	Michelle Pfeiffer	C	MOVIE
9	Whose picture can be seen on the green underside of the Hungarian card?	Rudenz Ulrich	Reading Itell	Furst Walter	Rudolph Harras	C	GAME
10	What is the wind like in arpad Toth's poem aprilisi capriccio?	soaked in rain	fiery from the sun	full of dandelions	loud with birdsong	C	LITERATURE
1	What does a man called a rag-picker like?	to make big	dance	to do the washing up	delete port	A	GENERAL
2	Fidel Castro is the president of which country?	Mexico	Jamaica	Cuba	Panama	C	HISTORY
3	Which chemical element is used to disinfect water?	the bromine	the manganese	the chlorine	the magnesium	C	SCIENCE
4	What did the old Hungarians call the Road of Wars?	the route of the conquest	the Milky Way	the main road to Vienna	the honeymoon	B	HISTORY
5	Which of the following is called a pram?	sailing ship	horse carriage	pocket knife	knee breeches	B	LANGUAGE
6	After whom were the volcanoes named?	of a Roman god	about a Mongol ruler	from an island	about an ancient city	A	LANGUAGE
7	How long do we call a cow a heifer?	until one month old	until it passes	until the age of two	until the last calving	B	BIOLOGY
8	What do Parisians "nickname" the Eiffel Tower?	the giant	the drilling rig	the giraffe	the old lady	D	GENERAL
9	Which rock musician received the most Grammy awards in 2000?	Phil Collins	Stevie Wonder	Carlos Santana	Eric Clapton	C	MUSIC
10	How many jerseys did ocsi Puskas wear in the Golden Team?	10	9	number 8	11th	A	SPORTS
11	Based on whose fairy tale did Gyorgy Ranki write the opera "The Pomade King's New Clothes"?	Brothers Grimm	Benedict Elek	La Fontaine	Andersen	D	OPERA
1	What is the name of the fruit juice fermented for making brandy?	digit	mash	it's quick	string bag	B	KITCHEN
2	What do octane numbers indicate?	horse racing rankings	load capacity of steel	the quality of gasoline	sound range	C	GENERAL
3	Which animal that is still alive today can exceed 30 meters in length?	bottlenose dolphin	blue whale	robust snake	giant tortoise	B	BIOLOGY
4	The hard magnetic disk storage of the computer is named after which weapon?	about the torpedo	about the revolver	of winchester	about the colt	C	GENERAL
5	The leaf of which tree can be seen in Canada's coat of arms?	maple	oak	on the candle	birch	A	COUNTRIES
6	Where can we visit the Margit Kovacs Museum in Hungary?	in Kaposvar	Pecs	Pope	Szentendre	D	HUNGARY
7	What kind of relative was called in-law?	the father-in-law	the mother-in-law	the brother-in-law	the uncle	A	GENERAL
8	What is the name of the cathedral in Szeged?	Saint Stephen's Cathedral	Votive church	Saint George's Church	Calvary Church	B	RELIGION
9	"Zenegep" was the LP of which Hungarian band?	Phonograph	Generate	Carthage	Corvina	B	MUSIC
10	Who did Cornelius Scipio defeat in the Battle of Zama in 202 BC?	Alexander the Great	Spartacus	Hannibal	Darius	C	HISTORY
11	In which sport did we win our first world championship gold medal?	in table tennis	in fencing	in figure skating	in sport shooting	C	SPORTS
1	What is porcini?	susterina	kind of mushroom	type of wading bird	grindery	B	LANGUAGE
2	Who was Rocinante's Don Quixote?	his horse	its owner	his servant	his love	B	LITERATURE
3	What is Milan's Scala famous for?	about his opera performances	about his spaghetti	about his ice cream	about his mineralogy exhibitions	A	GENERAL
4	Which of the following is the name of a single-masted sailboat?	dinghy	dinner	dimer	jig	A	SPORTS
5	Which musical instrument was Aladar Racz an artist?	dulcimer	zither	Celestial	clarinet	A	OPERA
6	What is the modern name of the sacred beetle of the ancient Egyptians, the scarab?	stag beetle	ladybird	scuttlebutt beetle	cantharis	C	BIOLOGY
7	Where did the "turn" happen?	in Tarsus	In Jerusalem	on the road to Damascus	on the way to Rome	C	HISTORY
8	Who were the negus?	Central African tribe	Ethiopian emperors	American slaves	Praetorian civil rights fighters	B	HISTORY
1	What device is aron Gabor famous for?	about copper cannon	about a water cannon	about storm cannon	about goulash cannon	A	HISTORY
2	What food is named after the author of Black Diamonds?	chicken soup	beef soup	bean soup	the black soup	C	LITERATURE
3	Which river is Paris?	Seine	Rhône	Garonne	Loire	A	GEOGRAPHY
4	"The Wall" was a hit by which band?	Pink Floyd	Genesis	Rolling Stones	Queen	A	MUSIC
5	Which country did the Sun King rule?	France	Russia	Austria	Spain	A	HISTORY
6	What is the connection between Mihaly Pollack and the building of the National Museum?	he was its first director	he designed it	helped him with a donation	he restored it	B	HISTORY
7	What shape bacteria are bacilli?	stick	sphere	screw	cone	A	BIOLOGY
8	How many stations did Jesus Christ go through on the Way of the Cross?	7	14	10	12	B	RELIGION
9	Who discovered penicillin?	Sir Alexander Fleming	Paul Ehrlich	Howard Temin	Robert Koch	A	BIOLOGY
10	Which city's famous beach is Copacabana?	Barcelona	Rio de Janeiro	Havana	Buenos Aires	B	COUNTRIES
11	Who hasn't played the legendary James Bond?	Sean Connery	George Lazenby	Timothy Hutton	Timothy Dalton	C	MOVIE
12	Who was the greatest ragtime composer?	Scott Joplin	Irving Berlin	Glenn Miller	Cole Porter	A	MUSIC
13	What does the name of the still existing Mohican tribe mean in Hungarian?	the son of the bison	fast horse	bear	wolf	D	LANGUAGE
1	What is the French key used for?	to close the Louvre	to open chastity belts	to tighten the nut	for language learning	C	GENERAL
2	Zoltan Fabri's classic movie got its title from which fairground nightclub?	Target shot	A roller coaster	Carousel	Sausages	C	MOVIE
3	When does the hawthorn's dress glow in Sandor Weores's poem?	when you try it on	if held in fire	autumn night	while taking	C	LITERATURE
4	Who designed the Parliament building?	Karoly Lotz	Imre Steindl	Frigyes Schulek	Ignac Alpar	B	ARCHITECTURE
5	Which opera did Verdi write about the opening of the Suez Canal?	the Rigoletto	Othello	the Traviata	the Aida	D	OPERA
6	What is the traditional title of the English heir to the throne?	Lord Mayor	infantile	Duke of Windsor	prince of wales	D	GENERAL
7	Who said that there is no loser in creation but him?	Hamlet	Sorry, sorry	Adam	Romeo	B	LITERATURE
8	In which city were the equestrian events of the 1956 Melbourne Olympics held?	Stockholm	Sydney	London	Wellington	A	SPORTS
1	What can be seen on the flag of Turkey?	a crescent moon	half a day	half a cloud	a half lightning	A	COUNTRIES
2	In old families, my guardian is considered almost a family member. Who was he?	the snotty neighbor	the courting fess guardsman	the lady escort	the faithful eb	C	GENERAL
3	What is Alexander Bell's invention used for?	for motorcycling	for calling	for flight	to telegraph	B	TECHNIQUE
4	How many number systems is the binary number system?	ten	seven	twelve	two	D	SCIENCE
5	What instrument did Stradivari become famous for?	piano	guitar	violin	double bass	C	OPERA
6	Freddie Mercury was the lead singer of which rock band?	AC/DC	Rolling Stones	Queen	Led Zeppelin	C	MUSIC
7	What American scandal is the movie The President's Men about?	about the Lewinsky affair	about the Kennedy assassination	about the Watergate affair	about the Reagan assassination	C	MOVIE
8	Who was the jackal-headed god in Egyptian mythology?	Osiris	You taste	Anubis	Amon-Re	C	RELIGION
9	Which relative of cocoa is used to produce soft drinks?	the ginger	the cola nut	the coca bush	the quinine	B	KITCHEN
10	Which of our boxers won the silver medal at the 1972 Munich Olympics in the relay weight?	Janos Kajdi	Gyorgy Gedo	Andras Botos	Laszlo Orban	A	SPORTS
1	How does the saying that we will soon get more money express?	the leg of the money rain is hanging	the juice looks in through the window	who gets up early, finds a full box	there is money in the house	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is the name of a chess piece?	bitch	labanc	hussar	Hajdu	C	GAME
3	What did you get who has e-mail on your computer?	new hard drive	electronic mail	expansion card	new floppy disk	B	GENERAL
4	FIFA is the international federation of which sport?	wrestling	basketball	football	cycling	C	SPORTS
5	Which of the following is your ball?	criminal instrument	a weed	football in the old days	singing bird	B	LANGUAGE
6	Which country is not an island country?	Sri Lanka	Ireland	Honduras	Taiwan	C	GEOGRAPHY
1	Which kitchen tool can be prefixed to the word cannon?	funnel	file	mortar	sieve	C	KITCHEN
2	What "car" is in the title of the legendary 1934 Hungarian film?	miracle	curvy	tale	fourteen carats	C	MOVIE
3	Which of the following initiates the explosion of the gas mixture in the internal combustion engine?	fuse	focal lens	spark plug	detonator	C	TECHNIQUE
4	What is the nickname of the frontman of the band Republic?	Shoe	Shoe	Slippers	Hobo	A	MUSIC
5	What does a person who likes anagrams like?	an ancient type of poem	a food specialty	collecting small objects	language games	D	LANGUAGE
6	Where do polar bears live?	at the North Pole	at the South Pole	in both arctic regions	in South Australia	A	BIOLOGY
7	What color is not in the flag of Germany?	black	green	yellow	red	B	COUNTRIES
8	Who wrote a piano concerto for the left hand?	Ferenc Liszt	Ravel	Chopin	Rachmaninoff	B	OPERA
1	What kind of "eyes" do bicycles have?	eagle	cat	mole	dog	B	TECHNIQUE
2	Which part of our body can be suffixed with the fish egg, the roe?	ear	damage	foot	waist	C	BIOLOGY
3	A cake was named after which priestly dignitary?	archbishop	bishop	canon	cardinal	B	KITCHEN
4	Which part of Brussels sprouts is eaten?	his letter	stem	buds	flower	C	KITCHEN
5	What did the person who was given sepia as a gift get?	field flower	chocolate cake	squid	elegant spirits	C	LANGUAGE
1	According to the well-known children's song, which animal's "house is here"?	bear	snail	dog	Bee	B	GENERAL
2	What was Ronald Reagan's original occupation?	painter	sculptor	actor	musician	C	HISTORY
3	Keep the saying going! "From a bird's feather, a man..."	about his family	about his friend	about his clothes	about his work	B	LANGUAGE
4	Where does he go who goes on the turf?	to the bank	to the casino	to the stock market	to the racetrack	D	GENERAL
5	What kind of fruit is "the Hungarian orange" in the hit comedy The Witness?	Mandarin	grapefruit	citron	pumpkin	C	MOVIE
6	Which work tool is the abortion?	spinning	sowing	weave	harvest	C	TECHNIQUE
7	Which Hungarian football referee became the best referee in the world three times in a row?	Alexander Puhl	Karoly Palotai	Istvan Zsolt	Laszlo Vagner	A	SPORTS
8	Jozsef Egry is called the painter of which region?	the Balaton	the Hortobagy	Budapest	Szeged	A	FINE ARTS
9	Who designed the assembly line system first used in car manufacturing?	Jozsef Galamb	Henry Ford	Laszlo Bíro	Louis Renault	A	TECHNIQUE
1	Which "cabbage" is the name of a dish?	short	sloppy	dirty	it was shot	B	KITCHEN
2	What color gemstone is ruby?	blue	red	yellow	colorless	B	GENERAL
3	Which of the following is the name of a grape variety?	Desdemona	Othello	romeo	prospero	B	BIOLOGY
4	Which of the following is called a tandem?	women's underwear	two-seater bicycle	teacher's illustration tool	biplane	B	LANGUAGE
5	What animals can be seen in the famous statue called the Laokon group?	eagles	snakes	lions	wolves	B	FINE ARTS
6	Which disease do Sabin drops protect against?	diphtheria	polio	whooping cough	tuberculosis	B	BIOLOGY
7	In which swimming did agi Kovacs win three times at the 1999 European Championships in Istanbul?	in freestyle swimming	backstroke	in butterfly	in breaststroke	D	SPORTS
8	Who is the composer of "Hungarian dances"?	Brahms	Ferenc Liszt	Sour cream	Ern Dohnanyi	A	OPERA
9	For which Walt Disney cartoon did Elton John compose songs?	Pocahontas	Lion King	Hercules	Aladdin	B	MOVIE
10	In which country is the town of Lipica, famous for its studs, located?	Croatia	Slovenia	Austria	Slovakia	B	COUNTRIES
11	What musical instrument was named after the abode of the muses?	racket	strings	blower	keyboardist	C	OPERA
12	In which US state is the Grand Canyon located?	Nevada	Colorado	Arizona	Utah	C	GEOGRAPHY
13	Who defeated Spartacus, the leader of the ancient slave revolt?	Scipio	Pompey	Julius Caesar	Crassus	D	HISTORY
1	Where should you go to buy turkey cock according to the famous song?	Badacsony	to Debrecen	To a quarry	to a turkey farm	B	GENERAL
2	Where does one get in a theater who is allowed backstage?	behind the buffet	behind the scenery	to the string ceiling	into the orchestra pit	B	GENERAL
3	What was the ancestor of the velocipede?	rhinoceros	gym shoes	flying	bicycle	D	LANGUAGE
4	What language is BASIC?	improved Esperanto	coded encryption	computer programming language	bird language	C	GENERAL
5	Which Hungarian football club team won the most championships until then?	Kispest Honved	ujpest	Iron	Ferencvaros	D	SPORTS
6	Copra is the dried flesh of which plant?	Kiwi	coconut	lychee	cashew nuts	B	BIOLOGY
7	Which station hall did the Eiffel company build?	South Station	East railway station	Jozsefvaros railway station	West Railway Station	D	GENERAL
8	Who carried the Hungarian flag at the Atlanta Olympics?	Tibor Benedict	Zsolt Gyulai	Istvan Kovacs	Bence Szabo	D	SPORTS
9	What is the Jewish Passover called?	Pesach	Purim	Yom Kippur	matzo	A	RELIGION
1	What midday fruit is in the title of Bartok's "wonderful" dance play?	fig	banana	Mandarin	coconut	C	OPERA
2	What is the characteristic of the rabbit?	rare	multiply	smart	trigger	B	GENERAL
3	What keeps celestial bodies in their orbits?	the air resistance	gravity	the speed of light	the saturation	B	SCIENCE
4	Which ancient people wore the tunic?	of the Sumerians	of the Egyptians	of the Romans	of the Chinese	C	HISTORY
5	Which is the dominant religion in India?	Hindu	Buddhist	Sikh	Muslim	A	RELIGION
1	What do we call teeth that fall out in childhood?	baby tooth	water tooth	saw tooth	tea tooth	A	BIOLOGY
2	Which country is Canada's only neighbor?	Brazil	Mexico	Russia	USA	D	GEOGRAPHY
3	What living creature was the first to travel to outer space?	dog	cat	monkey	guinea pig	A	GENERAL
4	What is the main raw material for porcelain production?	quartz	resin	kaolin	polystyrene	C	TECHNIQUE
1	According to a Hungarian folk song, which fruit ripens when the cane bends?	orange	banana	melon	solo	D	GENERAL
2	From which of our men's names does the name of a type of fancy coat come?	Attila	Levente	Stick it	Bullshit	A	GENERAL
3	What kind of animal is a dromedary?	a one-humped camel	two-humped camel	the offspring of a donkey and a mule	offspring of horse and mule	A	BIOLOGY
4	In which country can Meteora monasteries be seen?	in Bulgaria	in Turkey	in Russia	in Greece	D	COUNTRIES
5	The Pompidou Center is a modern building in which city?	Bordeaux	Paris	Geneva	Montreal	B	COUNTRIES
6	Queen Christina, who was portrayed by Greta Garbo on film, was the ruler of which country?	Norway	Denmark	Sweden	Finland	C	HISTORY
7	Tuberculosis is a disease of which organ?	of the tooth	the liver	of the skin	of the lungs	D	BIOLOGY
8	Which Hungarian footballer was the most selected player?	Laszlo Fazekas	Nandor Hidegkuti	Albert Florian	Jozsef Bozsik	D	SPORTS
1	Which garden tool can sometimes "break" as the saying goes?	the horn of the plough	the hilt	the sprinkler pipe	the pruning shears	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which rock opera about our king did the author couple Szorenyi-Brody write in 1983?	About Saint Laszlo	About Saint Stephen	About Kalman Konyves	About King Matthias	B	MUSIC
3	What do you call a substance that changes the speed of chemical processes?	catalyst	catapult	catalog	catharsis	A	SCIENCE
4	In which of the following countries do most people travel by bicycle?	India	United States	China	France	C	GENERAL
5	What is the name of Tarzan's partner?	Mary	Jill	Jane	Eve	C	MOVIE
6	How much money did Judas betray Jesus for?	for fifty gold	for thirty pieces of silver	for forty pieces of silver	for twenty gold	B	RELIGION
7	What is the title of Charles Darwin's best-known work?	The monkeys and us	Evolution and what	The origin of species	The origin of homo sapiens	C	BIOLOGY
8	What does the person who has accepted the coma undertake?	the in-laws	godparents	step-parenting	the bridegroom	B	GENERAL
9	Who or who were protected by the seven snipers in the classic western movie of the same name?	the American president	a Mexican village	you kill mobsters	an Apache tribe	B	MOVIE
1	What animals did Andrew Lloyd Webber write a musical about?	about elephants	about bears	about cats	about bats	C	MUSIC
2	Which sea does the Danube flow into?	into the Adriatic Sea	to the Mediterranean Sea	into the Black Sea	to the Sea of Marmara	C	GEOGRAPHY
3	What is Ludolf's number, i.e. the rounded value of "pi"?	3,14	4,25	1,34	3,33	A	SCIENCE
4	What is a libretto?	a new kind of gambling	goods credit	text book of musical works	freeing slaves	C	LANGUAGE
5	What animal swallowed Jonah in the Bible?	hippopotamus	crocodile	cethal	Lion	C	RELIGION
6	Tango was originally a dance from which country?	Argentina	Portugal	Spain	Brazil	A	COUNTRIES
1	According to the well-known children's song, which pet's child has neither ears nor tail?	Shoot	goat	cow	sheep	C	GENERAL
2	Which of our organs does the cardiologist treat?	our hearts	our eyes	our teeth	our lungs	A	BIOLOGY
3	What does someone who snorts do?	books	hammers	screws up	beats money	C	LANGUAGE
4	Workers of which profession are celebrated on the first Sunday of June?	the teachers	the doctors	the miners	the policemen	A	GENERAL
5	From whose novel was the musical "Knight of La Mancha" made?	Victor Hugo	Cervantes	Boccaccio	Dickens	B	LITERATURE
6	Ravi Shankar is the musician of which special instrument?	sitar	conga	tabla	Celestial	A	OPERA
7	What was the title of the collection of poems containing the late works of Janos Arany?	Memories	Epilogue	Autumn ones	Memory book	C	LITERATURE
8	Who lived in the Forbidden City?	Mongol Khans	Indian maharajas	Chinese emperors	Tibetan monks	C	HISTORY
9	Who did the Soviet Tupolev type aircraft get their name from?	about a hard-working mechanic	from the first pilot	about the head of the design office	about the factory director	C	TECHNIQUE
10	What color is the ermine's fur in summer?	black	gray	brown	white	C	BIOLOGY
11	What did the band U2 choose their name from?	from a nuclear submarine	from a spy satellite	from a reconnaissance aircraft	from mother ship	C	MUSIC
9	What does "Gaudeamus", the title of the graduation song, mean in Hungarian?	Let's go!	Let's have fun!	Let's say goodbye!	Let's live for today!	B	LANGUAGE
1	How does the saying go: "Who sows, ..."	he mows like that	harvest like that	it stays that way	it rakes like that	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do you make of plums when you make sylvorium?	jam	soup	brandy	canned food	C	KITCHEN
3	What was the former name of Margaret Island?	Island of Rabbits	Deer Island	Island of monasteries	Island of priests	A	HISTORY
4	What good is a dress if it has a slip?	barge	veil	haircut	her petticoat	A	GENERAL
5	What will posterity call Lujza Blaha?	the Avon Swan	the most melodious Hungarian	the nightingale of the nation	the old woman	C	THEATER
6	What is the origin of the comic book and movie hero Asterix?	Gaul	Norman	vandal	viking	A	MOVIE
7	What is gummy made of?	from goat's milk	from rye	from mare's milk	of poppies	C	KITCHEN
8	How many square meters are in a hectare?	50 000	100 000	10 000	1 000	C	SCIENCE
9	Which of the following musicals was the last to be composed by Andrew Lloyd Webber?	Cats	Evita	Jesus Christ Superstar	The Phantom of the Opera	D	MUSIC
1	What is the traditional dress of Japanese women?	bikini	hara-kiri	monokini	kimono	D	GENERAL
2	A popular breaded meat dish is named after which capital city?	Vienna	London	Berlin	Warsaw	A	KITCHEN
3	What do we call the glowing liquid pouring out of a volcanic crater?	glacier	lava	geyser	Avalanche	B	GEOGRAPHY
4	What kind of "parcel" are narrow fields called?	trouser leg	pants brake	belt	suspenders	C	LANGUAGE
5	How many Hungarian kings were canonized?	one	two	dew	four	B	HISTORY
6	Tchaikovsky wrote ballet music about which Grimm fairy tale character?	About Sleeping Beauty	About Snow White	About Cinderella	About Matyi Huvelyk	A	OPERA
7	Which is the largest planet in the solar system?	Uranus	Jupiter	Pluto	Saturn	B	SCIENCE
8	Which is the smallest island state in Europe?	Malta	Cyprus	Iceland	Ireland	A	GEOGRAPHY
9	Where is the Balaton Museum located?	Keszthely	Siofok	Balatonfured	Fonyod	A	HUNGARY
10	Which play takes place during the Thirty Years' War?	The Virgin of Orleans	The obsitos	Crazy mom	Torch flame	C	LITERATURE
1	What will he eat as Hyppolit, the main character of the footman, according to the famous saying in the film?	squib with squib	hot dogs with mustard	onion with onion	hamburger with coke	C	MOVIE
2	What is clay used for?	for glass production	for making clothes	for construction	for heating	C	TECHNIQUE
3	How long does it take for the moon to go around the earth?	28 days	30 days	40 days	One year	A	SCIENCE
4	Which of the following is prohibited?	wheat	wool road	hemp	ham	C	GENERAL
5	Which size is not given on women's ready-to-wear clothes?	waist circumference	hip width	bust	shoulder width	D	GENERAL
6	What is the purpose of the booth photos?	to study space objects	family album	for meteorological investigations	for advertising purposes	D	GENERAL
7	On the occasion of whose birthday did the 70th trolley bus service start in Budapest?	Stalin	Matyas Rakosi	Khrushchev	Lenin	A	HISTORY
8	What is the name of the ship on which Fulig Jimmy works as both a waiter and a heater?	Rangoon	Radzeer	Honolulu Star	What's up, Mr. Wagner?	C	LITERATURE
9	How do we spell the capitalized name of our great playwright correctly?	With Madacs	With Madac	with Madachc	Madach cheat	C	LANGUAGE
10	Fless is the technical term for which sport?	wrestling	gymnastics	sailing	fencing	D	SPORTS
1	What is a mirage?	Mediterranean plant	afternoon children's performance	atmospheric phenomenon	tropical butterfly initiative	C	GENERAL
2	What do card players call the remaining deck after the deal?	talon	cat	drunk	on the bottom	A	GAME
3	What kind of meat is steak made of?	offense	goose	cattle	dove	C	KITCHEN
4	What is American used for?	to shoot	for engraving	for sports	for drilling	D	GENERAL
5	What is the longest river on Earth?	Yangtze	Nile	Mississippi	Amazon	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	What was the name of Yuri Gagarin's spaceship?	Luna-1	Voszhod-1	Vostok-1	Soyuz-1	C	TECHNIQUE
7	What is the drop that the actors "chewed"?	tobacco leaf	hemp tow	libretto	dry bread	B	GENERAL
8	Where does the bird with the same name as the tropical fruit, the kiwi, live?	in South America	in New Zealand	in Africa	in Siberia	B	BIOLOGY
9	What is the SI unit of power?	joule	watt	horsepower	Newton	B	SCIENCE
10	Which state's flag resembles the US flag but only has one star?	Liberia	Australia	Malaysia	Costa Rica	A	COUNTRIES
11	Who was Hungary's ambassador to Paris between 1947-1949?	Cut it out, arpad	Mihaly Karolyi	Ferenc Fejt	Gyula Illyes	B	HISTORY
1	What is the common name for a human foot without an arch?	caterpillar's foot	bear foot	ski	crow's feet	D	BIOLOGY
2	Which of the following is not a type of fish?	visa	case	catfish	var	D	BIOLOGY
3	What did they do with the person who was blackmailed?	they made up	deleted from the open register	he was provided with his kelinga	it was set on a pedestal	C	LANGUAGE
4	Where were Soviet cosmonauts trained?	In Star City	In Sun City	In Lunavaros	In space city	A	GENERAL
5	According to the Bible, in how many days did God create the world?	ten	six	seven	three	B	RELIGION
6	According to Madach, which animal is scarce?	from a dog	from a fox	from a seal	from fleas	C	LITERATURE
7	The musical My Fair Lady was based on which play by GB Shaw?	Mrs. Warren's craft	Candida	Pygmalion	St. Johanna	C	LITERATURE
8	What does a balneologist do?	with language renewal	with caves	with cetaceans	with spas	D	LANGUAGE
9	Which bone of our body is the clavicle?	of the skull	the forearm	of the tribe	of the leg	B	BIOLOGY
10	Idi Amin was the dictator of which African country?	Sudan	Kenya	Uganda	Central African Republic	C	HISTORY
1	What did the person who was brought a gift from the fair get?	farewell cup	bird saw cake	shop boy	the merchant's son	C	GENERAL
2	How many cards are there in a pack of Hungarian cards?	fiftytwo	twenty one	thirty-two	twenty eight	C	GAME
3	Which substance is of plant origin?	wool	cotton	silk	Angora	B	SCIENCE
4	Who uses programming languages in their work?	event organizers	computer professionals	tour guides	agricultural professionals	B	GENERAL
5	In which rock opera is it sung "Rock yourself!"?	The miserable ones	Imaginary report...	Stephen the King	Star makers	B	MUSIC
6	Which of the following was invented by the Swedish chemist Alfred Nobel?	the lightning rod	the dynamite	the Teflon coating	the aspirin	B	SCIENCE
7	Which cheese is named after a Swiss landscape?	Trappist	eidami	Parmesan	Emmental	D	GENERAL
8	Who were the Decembrists known from Russian history?	a communist cell	a group of painters	romantic composers	anti-tsar conspirators	D	HISTORY
9	What color jersey does the stage winner wear in the Tour de France bicycle race?	blue	purple	red	yellow	D	SPORTS
10	Where did Galileo perform his free fall experiments?	in the church of Padua	in Milan Cathedral	in the bell tower of Venice	in the Leaning Tower of Pisa	D	SCIENCE
11	Where was Ferenc Erkel born?	Pope	Makon	Turan	Gyulan	D	OPERA
12	What is the name of the carbohydrate that builds up plant cell walls?	lactose	cellulose	maltose	glucose	B	BIOLOGY
13	At which Olympics did archery become an event again?	in Tokyo	In Mexico	In Montreal	in Munich	D	SPORTS
1	According to the saying, what does "good wine" not need?	company value	barrel	innkeeper	solo	A	GENERAL
2	What do you call a bridge that spans a valley or chasm?	fighter	viaduct	point	apse	B	GENERAL
3	Which is not part of the Toldi trilogy?	Add it	Toldi's evening	Toldi's love	Toldi in abundance	D	LITERATURE
4	According to etiquette, whose flower is the myrtle?	groomsmen	brides	first prom girls	old women	B	GENERAL
5	In what cycles do the zodiac signs change in Chinese astrology?	per month	every three weeks	annually	every decade	C	GENERAL
6	What does Attila Jozsef want to eat in the opening line of the poem "I want to be rich"?	roast goose	chicken thighs	turkey breast	duck leg	A	LITERATURE
7	How is Justitia, the goddess of justice, portrayed?	with spear in hand	with a law book in hand	gagged	blindfolded	D	RELIGION
8	In which country is Puccini's opera Miss Butterfly set?	in China	in the United States	in Japan	in Italy	C	OPERA
9	What is the river of Florence?	Arno	Adyge	Poe	Reno	A	GEOGRAPHY
10	Which animal pretends to be dead in an emergency?	baboon	opossum	jumping mouse	gecko	B	BIOLOGY
1	Which animal born today is said to be innocent?	pit bull	little rabbit	octopus	sheep	D	GENERAL
2	The Tower was the prison of which famous city?	Los Angeles	London	Washington	Venice	B	COUNTRIES
3	What athlete is Sylvester Stallone's movie Rocky about?	about a chess player	about a hurdler	about a boxer	about a jockey	C	MOVIE
4	What kind of clothing are called tobaccos?	the bartenders apron	bibs for babies	the skirts of ballet dancers	the collar of wine drinkers	C	GENERAL
5	What is the sap of the rubber tree used for?	for making soft drinks	for rubber production	for feeding animals	for paper production	B	TECHNIQUE
6	Who issued the license?	John Gutenberg	II. Andrew	the tsar of Russia	Batu Khan	C	HISTORY
7	Where are plankton?	in the seas	on the trees of primeval forests	on the high rocks	in the spring meadows	A	BIOLOGY
8	What year did the Berlin Wall fall?	in 1989	in 1990	in 1988	in 1991	A	HISTORY
9	"We are dust and sand," says the Deathly Hallows. What did XII mean? century the word "isa"?	may	since	just	sure	D	LANGUAGE
10	Where did the Japanese delegation sign the capitulation documents at the beginning of September?	on the battleship Lincoln	on the battleship Missouri	At Pearl Harbor	on the island of Okinawa	B	HISTORY
11	Today's Libya was a colony of which European country in the early 1910s?	The Netherlands	France	Italy	Great Britain	C	HISTORY
12	According to mythology, who or what was the mother of Romulus and Remus?	a wolf	Juno	Minerva	Rhea Silvia	D	RELIGION
13	What is the name of the Buddhist monastic order?	hinayana	sangha	dharma	Mahayana	B	RELIGION
1	Where did the "gods" fall according to the title of the hit comedy?	nose	on their bottoms	to the feet	on their heads	D	MOVIE
2	What was meant by the reign of a man in the old days?	country tour	reign	reasoning	map making	B	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following is a wading bird?	Falcon	buzzard	gulipa	titmouse	C	BIOLOGY
4	Janos Arany wrote his ballad Hídavatas after the dedication of which bridge?	chain Bridge	Ferenc Jozsef Bridge	Margaret Bridge	Erzsebet Bridge	C	LITERATURE
5	Who used to wear rooster feather headdresses?	firefighters	outlaws	gendarmes	doctors	C	GENERAL
6	In which opera can we hear "Think and drink!" lines beginning with?	Verdi: Traviata	Erkel: Bank bank	Bizet: Carmen	Gounod: Faust	B	OPERA
7	In which city was John Fitzgerald Kennedy shot?	in Las Vegas	In Chicago	in Boston	in Dallas	D	HISTORY
8	How many plagues did the Lord strike Egypt with?	hundred	twelve	ten	seven	C	RELIGION
9	Which animal can have nine belts?	armadillo	anteater	jellyfish	turtle	A	BIOLOGY
10	What is the exact title of Zsigmond Kemeny's novel?	Widow and daughter	The widow and her daughter	A woman and her daughter	Her daughter's mother	A	LITERATURE
1	What does a stutterer look for in his poop?	a small fortune	tire	lump	bow	C	LANGUAGE
2	adam Clark led the construction of which of our bridges?	Margaret Bridge	chain Bridge	Erzsebet Bridge	Freedom Bridge	B	TECHNIQUE
3	What kind of "man" did Dustin Hoffman play in the title of the hit movie?	live	force	bouncer	rain	D	MOVIE
4	What was the name of the land left fallow during two-pressure farming?	waste table	fallow	nobody's meadow	silent groove	B	HISTORY
5	What is the name of the traditional fighting mat in juggling?	candy bar	tsunami	tatami	ikebana	C	SPORTS
6	Whose comedy is the musical "My Fair Lady" based on?	Shakespeare	Oscar Wilde	GB Shaw	Neil Simon	C	LITERATURE
7	Where does the Maros flow into the Tisza?	At Mako	In Szeged	At Battonya	Hodmezvasarhely	B	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which celestial body did Surveyor-1 land on?	to Mars	to the moon	to Venus	to Iora	B	SCIENCE
9	In which month is the Earth closest to the Sun?	January	March	July	September	A	SCIENCE
10	Who was the father of John the Baptist in the Bible?	Zacharias	Jonathan	Elisha	Philip	A	RELIGION
1	Which of the following is edible?	the croquet	the cricket	the cuckoo	the jacket	A	KITCHEN
2	Who was Antony's love?	Agrippina	Cleopatra	Salome	Antonia	B	LITERATURE
3	What do bees carry to pollinate flowers?	the nectar	the penis	the pollen	the party	C	BIOLOGY
4	In which city is the famous Hradzin castle?	Istanbul	Prague	Copenhagen	Baghdad	B	COUNTRIES
1	Which of the following is the name of a small bird?	peacock eye	goat eye	bull's eye	chicken eye	C	BIOLOGY
2	Where is the famous French university, Sorbonne?	in Paris	in Nice	in Rome	in Lyon	A	COUNTRIES
3	What is the title of the film series starring Ferenc Zenthe: "Captain of..."	Rakoczi	The Tenkes	The close-up	Thokoly	B	MOVIE
4	What kind of meat is flekken made of?	offense	cattle	duck	chicken	A	KITCHEN
5	Who was called the flood boatman?	Pal Vasvari	Noah	Istvan Szechenyi	Miklos Wesselenyi	D	HISTORY
6	Which of the following historical figures is not personified by Adam in The Tragedy of Man?	Miltiades	Kepler	Michelangelo	Danton	C	LITERATURE
7	Where is Szent Jobb kept in Budapest?	in the National Museum	in the Parliament	in the Basilica	in the Matthias Church	C	RELIGION
8	Which part of the chicory is edible?	its bloom	his letter	its root tuber	the seed	C	BIOLOGY
1	How does the saying go? "Nomen est..."	showman	omen	Truman	bitumen	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do Indians do with mochas?	they hunt with him	they walk in it	they ride him	they smoke it	B	LANGUAGE
3	Trevi Fountain is a landmark of which city?	Florence	Venice	Rome	Naples	C	COUNTRIES
4	Where do Buddhist monks pray?	in a mosque	in baggage claim	in a pagoda	in a minaret	C	RELIGION
5	Who did Tony Curtis love "hotly" in the famous 1959 comedy?	Ava Gardner	Doris Day	Marilyn Monroe	Anita Ekberg	C	MOVIE
6	Which era of which state is called the Victorian era?	France, XVII. century	England, XIX century	Germany, 20th century century	Spain, XVIII. century	B	HISTORY
7	Where can pedestrians cross according to KRESZ?	on the roadway of the bridge	on the overpass roadway	on a main road	on the highway	C	GENERAL
8	What was the name of Indira Gandhi's son, who later also became the victim of an assassination attempt?	Karamchand Gandhi	Rajiv Gandhi	Charan Singh	Chandra Sekhar	B	HISTORY
9	What was the title of the play on which the opera Rigoletto was based?	The prince is in love	The fool's daughter	The king is fun	The assassin's confession	C	OPERA
10	Who used to be called a courier?	the street newspaper vendor	the magistrate	the wandering singer	the courier	D	LANGUAGE
1	What is the cold cutter used for?	for making ice cream	for weather forecasting	for metal cutting	for reed harvesting	C	TECHNIQUE
2	What does the man who roams faraway lands do?	Lesser Poland-Greater Poland	Tolna-Baranya	Makot-Jerusalem	Hencidat-Boncidat	B	GENERAL
3	Which animal lives in a burrow?	dove	swallow	bloodhound	panther	A	BIOLOGY
4	How many districts does Budapest have?	22	20	23	25	C	GENERAL
5	Who made the statue of David in Florence?	Michelangelo	Leonardo	Amerigo Tot	Caravaggio	A	FINE ARTS
6	Which athlete had a statue erected in his country during his lifetime?	Al Oerter	Paavo Nurmi	Emil Zatopek	Jesse Owens	B	SPORTS
7	What does computer software consist of?	of chips	from magnetic disks	of mechanical building blocks	programs and data	D	GENERAL
8	Whose daughter was Marie Antoinette?	XVI. Louis	Frederick I	Maria Theresa	II. Joseph	C	HISTORY
9	In which city can you see the museum of the Ferenczy artist family?	Vacott	In Gyr	Szentendre	Pecs	C	HUNGARY
1	How does the saying go: "..., take his daughter."	Ask his mother	Avoid his father	Look at his mother	Count your money	C	LANGUAGE
2	Which animal is the adjective "giggler"?	hyena	koala	church monkey	sloth	A	BIOLOGY
3	Where is the coffered ceiling located?	in laundries	in monasteries	in theaters	in sewing shops	C	GENERAL
4	In which game does bluffing play a big role?	in poker	in billiards	in roulette	in the twenty-first	A	GAME
5	In which basketball team did Kornel David start his NBA career?	Utah Jazz	Los Angeles Lakers	Chicago Bulls	Orlando Magic	C	SPORTS
6	Who was the first president of the republic in Hungary during World War II? after WWII?	Ferenc Nagy	Cut it out, arpad	Istvan Dobi	Zoltan Tildy	D	HISTORY
7	Who is the Julian calendar named after?	Friend Julianus	Julius Caesar	Emperor Justinian	Pope Gregory	B	HISTORY
8	"Szallj fel magasra!" was a hit by which Hungarian rock group. and the "Stray Angel"?	Beatrice	Pyramid	Coral	Edda	B	MUSIC
9	In which county is Lake Szelidi located?	in Bekes county	in Bacs-Kiskun county	in Baranya County	in Csongrad county	B	GEOGRAPHY
1	Which of the following female names is also the title of a popular series?	Euphrosyne	Esmeralda	Emergency	Eulalia	B	GENERAL
2	What can we travel in a cabin?	on the train	on a ship	on a plane	on the subway	B	GENERAL
3	What is the title of the movie starring Whitney Houston? "More than ..."	brother	bodyguard	gendarme	painter	B	MOVIE
4	Which conception considered the Earth to be the center of the universe?	geocentric	heliocentric	centrifugal	universal	A	SCIENCE
5	What is the name of the special exchange of the king and the rook in chess?	coronation	siege	outburst	rampart	D	GAME
6	How did the motto of Oliver Cromwell's New Model Army continue? "Trust in God and ..."	saddle your horse!	don't trust kings!	keep the gunpowder dry!	build a fleet!	C	HISTORY
7	From which animal's gland was the crimson dye long ago obtained?	purple mussel	purple octopus	purple butterfly	crimson snail	D	BIOLOGY
8	American President Bill Clinton is from which federal state?	Alabama	Oklahoma	Arkansas	Kentucky	C	GENERAL
9	Who gave the name Tierra del Fuego?	From Magellan	From Columbus	From Pizarro	From Toscanelli	A	HISTORY
10	Who was not VIII. Henrik's wife?	Anne Boleyn	Eleanor of Aquitaine	Catherine Parr	Anne of Cleves	B	HISTORY
1	Which "nut" is the name of a herb?	Saracen	happily	love	luck	B	BIOLOGY
2	Who plays the flute in the Sandor Weores poem Bobita?	the New York Philharmonic	weeks	conservatory students	frog wars	D	LITERATURE
3	What does someone who drives a wheelchair do?	he goes for a drive	thread	hunt	grind	B	GENERAL
4	What kind of person in a country is "persona non grata"?	very popular	strictly protected	above the law	undesirable	D	LANGUAGE
5	What was the Turkish name of the famous Constantinople prison, the Seven Towers?	Bastille	Tower	Jedikule	Cuticle	C	HISTORY
6	The technical terms of which sport are stroke count, side water and knee pad?	canoe	rowing	kayak	sailing	A	SPORTS
7	Of the following places, where in our country did the person who went to the Kuria go?	to court	to the police station	to the hospital	to the parliament	A	LANGUAGE
8	In 1962, the Mariner-2 spacecraft was launched to research which planet?	Uranus	Mars	Venus	Saturn	C	SCIENCE
9	To which animal is the otter closely related?	seal	weasel	rat	hydra	B	BIOLOGY
1	What does the folk rhyme say? "... is more beautiful than..."	sparrowhawks	goose-goose	peacock-turkey	mama-daughter	C	LANGUAGE
2	Who or what is her papa?	African wading bird	tropical fruit	a New Zealand tribe	Tibetan monk	B	LANGUAGE
3	What is our body made of: thin, thick, horseshoe?	gut	wine	nerve	membrane	A	BIOLOGY
4	What is the title of Bela Ternovszky's highly successful cartoon?	Mousetrap	The skin mouse is the most beautiful mouse	Cat catcher	Cat claw	C	MOVIE
5	How many punches is allowed in the ulti for the person who takes a "bet"?	all	only the last one	not even one	just the beginner	C	GAME
6	What does intervention mean?	interlude	intervention	depreciation	warning	B	LANGUAGE
7	What kind of work was the gouge used for?	for cooking	for cattle herding	for plowing	for spinning	D	LANGUAGE
8	What is the name of the old trade route from northern China to the Mediterranean?	caravan route	silk road	Sandor Nagy Road	amber road	B	HISTORY
1	What is bass clef?	the opener of the chastity belt	mark on the sheet music	swearing	encryption code	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which material is not necessary for the production of concrete?	sand	gravel	pitch	cement	C	TECHNIQUE
3	What animals are in the title of Alfred Hitchcock's classic film?	wolves	birds	mosquitoes	rabbits	B	MOVIE
4	What did the salesman sell?	vegetables	meat products	meter goods	railway	C	GENERAL
5	Which of the following materials is made by vulcanization?	tire	steel	aluminum	glass	A	TECHNIQUE
6	Which of the following watercraft does not have sails?	stick	frigate	bark	Brig	A	TECHNIQUE
7	In which opera is the famous Torreador sung?	Bizet: Carmen	Verdi: The Troubadour	Rossini: The Barber of Seville	Puccini: Tosca	A	OPERA
8	Which city was one of the centers of the Inca culture?	Tenochtitlan	Viracocha	Machu Picchu	Quetzalcoatl	C	HISTORY
1	How does the saying continue? "I've seen it..."	tassel on cap	crow on arm	dots on the ball	hole in a sock	B	LANGUAGE
2	Where is the Anna Ball held every year in July?	in Balatonalmadi	in Balatonfured	in Tihany	in Badacsony	B	GENERAL
3	What is the common name of Napoleon's son?	Bruin	Eagle branch	Emperor penguin	zgida	B	HISTORY
4	Where is the summer residence of the English kings located near London?	Greenwich	Wimbledon	Westminster	Windsor	D	GENERAL
5	Anders Celsius divided his temperature scale between the freezing and boiling points of which substance?	mercury	oil	alcohol	water	D	SCIENCE
6	In which sport did Zsolt Gyulai become a two-time Olympic champion?	kayaking	wrestling	fencing	swimming	A	SPORTS
7	Where does the meadow sleep in Jozsef Attila's poem Sleep?	under dunna	under the blanket	under the covers	under the starry sky	A	LITERATURE
8	Which of the following female names is not a plant name?	Amaryllis	Erika	Xenia	Georgina	C	BIOLOGY
1	What is the title of the famous Soviet film: "The ..."	crows	partisans	cranes	red stars	C	MOVIE
2	In what inflorescence do the seeds of conifers develop?	in a cone	in a box	in a cocoon	in Bogas	A	BIOLOGY
3	How long did Verne's heroes have to go around the Earth?	a month	half a year	80 days	1680 days	C	LITERATURE
4	The male of which animal is the gecko?	duck	guinea fowl	grouse	peacock	A	BIOLOGY
5	What does the name Buenos Aires mean in Hungarian?	Welcome	good day	good winds	beautiful view	C	LANGUAGE
6	Which of the following is not a spacecraft?	Mercury	Atlantis	Columbia	Discovery	A	TECHNIQUE
7	What is the bandage used for?	for training horses	for wound dressing	for hand disinfection	for waxing violins	B	LANGUAGE
8	In which city is the world-famous Uffizi gallery located?	Venice	Florence	Madrid	Barcelona	B	COUNTRIES
9	Who wrote the "Unfinished Symphony"?	Brahms	Mendelssohn	Schubert	Schumann	C	OPERA
10	Who was the husband of the famous ancient queen Nofrete?	Cheops	II. Ramses	ARC. Amenhotep	III. Thothmes	C	HISTORY
11	Which plant has been used against warts?	pansy nettle	bloody swallowwort	white mauve	mistletoe	B	BIOLOGY
1	Which of the following is the name of a cake?	cat's whiskers	stork nose	crow's feet	crow's feet	D	KITCHEN
2	Where do the bells go on Good Friday?	to Basel	to heaven	to Rome	to Geneva	C	GENERAL
3	Which Hungarian football team is nicknamed the "green eagles"?	Sasad SE	Ferencvaros	Paradsasvar SC	Sashalom FC	B	SPORTS
4	Besides a man's hat, what else is called a top hat?	the engine cylinders	the airplane's propeller	the cymbals	iron the door	A	LANGUAGE
5	What does the installer do?	apologizes	encourages language learning	installs a computer program	controls an airplane	C	GENERAL
6	Complete the Heltai quote! "Life is Beautiful, ..."	although it hurts, sometimes it still hurts.	even the light dream!	can i explain	you need a drink for that!	C	LITERATURE
7	What is Borovicska brandy made from?	peppermint	of peppermint	from juniper berries	from barberry	C	KITCHEN
8	Who is the king of France who thinks Paris is worth a mass?	Little Pippin	ARC. Henrik	XIV. Louis	Charles the Great	B	HISTORY
9	Which animal has a rodent?	to the dragonfly	to the crabs	for the carp meal	to the spider	D	BIOLOGY
1	According to the saying, the juice of what is thin?	to the satiated cow	to the ripe fruit	for cheap meat	used as a dishcloth	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is donkey bread?	the first baking of Pekinas	feed mixture	menzakos	a weed	D	LANGUAGE
3	What can we get from an ATM?	money	paripat	weapon	medicinal tea	A	GENERAL
4	Who is credited with inventing the carbon fiber light bulb?	Thomas Alva Edison	Sir Thomas Philips	Alexander Bell	John Tungsram	A	TECHNIQUE
5	Who is the only Hungarian soccer player to win gold?	Ferenc Puskas	Albert Florian	Jozsef Bozsik	Lajos Detari	B	SPORTS
6	Who is Julia Roberts' partner in What a Woman! in the comedy?	Tom Hanks	Mel Gibson	Richard Gere	Kurt Russell	C	MOVIE
7	In which city is the "Cifrapalota" located?	in Jaszbereny	Kecskemet	in Debrecen	in Veszprem	B	GENERAL
8	According to literary adaptations, with whom did the biblical King Solomon fall in love?	With Bathsheba	With Cleopatra	With Queen Semiramis	with the Queen of Sheba	D	LITERATURE
9	Where does the warthog live?	in wooden wells	in underground holes	in wacks plastered with mud	in rich undergrowth	B	BIOLOGY
10	Who won the Olympic championship in 1500 m flat running in 1980 and 1984?	Steve Ovett	Sebastian Coe	Steve Cram	Marcus O'Sullivan	B	SPORTS
11	Which organ produces insulin?	the thyroid gland	the pancreas	the adrenal gland	the pituitary gland	B	BIOLOGY
12	Hungarian-born Vilmos Zsigmond was the cinematographer of which famous film?	Apocalypse now	The shark	Third type of encounters	Hair	C	MOVIE
1	What animals are the main characters in Andrew Lloyd Webber's world-famous musical?	cats	fleas	turkeys	nuns	A	MUSIC
2	What is Columbus's egg called?	small	rectangular	addle	simple	D	GENERAL
3	Which "switch" is not on the railway?	guard	house	damage	stick	D	TECHNIQUE
4	What is the relationship between Miklos Ybl and the building of the Opera House?	sang in it	commanded in it	was its designer	was its director	C	HISTORY
5	Which teeth of the prehistoric saber-toothed tiger were elongated?	his incisors	his canines	his molars	his molars	B	BIOLOGY
6	What does Cerberus guard in Greek mythology?	Zeus's palace	the gate of the underworld	the dream of the gods	the fire	B	RELIGION
7	After which Hungarian traveler was a volcano named in Africa?	About Kalman Kittenberger	About Laszlo Magyar	About Laszlo Almasy	About Samuel Teleki	D	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which medical instrument measures brain currents?	CT device	CRT device	EEG device	EKG device	C	BIOLOGY
9	Who invented the infamous instrument of execution, the guillotine?	an executioner	a barber	a doctor	a French knight	C	TECHNIQUE
10	Lutecia was the Roman name of which city?	Lausanne	Naples	Lyon	Paris	D	HISTORY
11	Who was the men's world chess champion between 1975 and 1985?	Boris Spassky	Robert Fischer	Garry Kasparov	Anatoly Karpov	D	SPORTS
1	What does the vile slanderer yell at others?	cricket-beetle	bunny-pock	lizard-ant	snake-frog	D	LANGUAGE
2	In which institution do the brokers operate?	in the parliament	at the fire department	on the stock market	at the court	C	GENERAL
3	What tower is in the title of the classic 1974 disaster film?	deadly	flaming	it's hellish	exploded	C	MOVIE
4	What do you call a slob in a theater?	their help hole	auditorium seating	ornamental lodge	actor's entrance	B	GENERAL
1	Complete the proverb! "When Vince shines, the ..."	grocery store	belly	putty	cellar	D	LANGUAGE
2	What animal is a herb named after?	Falcon	jackal	bat	cuckoo	D	LANGUAGE
3	What is the well-known sign of an international emergency call?	COME	SOS	HELP	RCE	B	GENERAL
4	On which planet did astronomers once think they discovered artificial structures?	on Venus	on Uranus	on Mars	on Pluto	C	SCIENCE
5	Where was the terminus of the first steam-powered railway line from Pest?	in Szekesfehervar	In Vac	Nagymaros	in Buda	B	GENERAL
6	Who sent Saint Stephen the royal crown?	Pope Pius X	II. Pope New Year's Eve	Cyril and Method	XI. Pope Gregory	B	HISTORY
7	From how many meters is the penalty kick thrown in handball?	from four meters	from five meters	from eleven meters	from seven meters	D	SPORTS
8	Where did Sherlock Holmes live according to the novels?	in Time Square	on Wall Street	in Downing Street	on Baker Street	D	LITERATURE
9	Which animal is the emblem of the WWF (World Wildlife Foundation)?	koala	giant panda	Lion	kangaroo	B	BIOLOGY
10	Who is called Lord Mayor in England?	the prime minister	the heir to the throne	Lord Mayor of London	the king's uncle	C	GENERAL
11	Who is the saying attributed to? "Vae victis!" (Woe to the vanquished!)	to Julius Caesar	To Tacitus	to Lepidus	To Brennus	D	HISTORY
1	What is the cottage made of in the fairy tale Jancsi and Juliska?	duck feet	from sausage	of gold	of gingerbread	D	GENERAL
2	Where did Lady Diana's fatal car accident happen?	in London	in Newyork	in Paris	in Monte Carlo	C	GENERAL
3	Where did the pedellus work?	in school	next to the doctor	in the vineyard	at the post office	A	LANGUAGE
4	Who was the famous Jancsi Rigo, after whom a cake was named?	pastry chef	master chef	gypsy primate	naive painter	C	GENERAL
5	Sindbad is the recurring hero of which Hungarian writer?	Zsigmond Moricz	Gyula Krudy	Mor Jokai	Geza Gardonyi	B	LITERATURE
6	What is a company that has liquidity problems?	polluting the environment	technically backward	unable to export	insolvent	D	LANGUAGE
7	Which of the following mini-states has a coastline?	Monaco	Andorra	Liechtenstein	San Marino	A	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which group of musical instruments does the marimba belong to?	woodwind instrument	percussion instrument	plucked instrument	brass instrument	B	OPERA
9	When does a card player announce their retirement?	if you won the game	if you raise the stakes	if an irregularity has occurred	if you take the first hit	C	GAME
10	What was the name of Admiral Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar?	Queen Elisabeth	Victory	King George III	Triumph	B	HISTORY
1	What kind of "stack" is a cake?	galley	bonfire	small	large	B	KITCHEN
2	What were locomotives called in the old days?	steam elephant	steel bull	iron pan	rail lion	C	GENERAL
3	Which former American president's namesake is the likable young doctor in the series "Emergency"?	Washington	Roosevelt	Carter	Nixon	C	MOVIE
4	Which animal is not a big cat?	tiger	Lion	jaguar	lynx	D	BIOLOGY
5	The Zwinger is a world-famous museum in which city?	Potsdam	Berlin	Leipzig	Dresden	D	COUNTRIES
6	Which vitamin deficiency causes wolf blindness?	Vitamin D	Vitamin K	The vitamin	Vitamin B	C	BIOLOGY
7	Who was the prime minister of Hungary between 1975 and 1987?	Karoly Grosz	Gyorgy Lazar	Jen Fock	Janos Kadar	B	HISTORY
1	What animals did Tchaikovsky write ballet music about?	carp	frogs	swans	Ducks	C	OPERA
2	What was the name of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher?	Iron fist	Saint with iron ribs	Iron Chancellor	Iron lady	D	HISTORY
3	Who was released from prison by the people on March 15, 1848?	Mihaly Tancsics	Lajos Kossuth	Pal Vasvari	the prisoner Raby	A	HISTORY
4	What is the title of Arnold Schwarzenegger's Christmas themed movie?	Winter miner II.	Amie's angels	The fluff is falling	Commando Santa Claus	C	MOVIE
5	Which is the highest mountain in Budapest?	the Harmashatar mountain	Janos-hegy	Gellert Hill	the Freedom Hill	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	What do they flavor grain brandy with when they make gin?	with anise	with rosehips	with juniper berries	with ginseng	C	KITCHEN
7	What kind of dog is lying on the doorstep in the poem "The Family Circle" by Janos Arany?	knocked out	stray	served	cheesy	C	LITERATURE
8	Which of the following animal's place of residence is called a burrow?	of the fox	the bear's	the squirrel's	the wolf's	A	BIOLOGY
9	What is the abbreviation for International Labor Organization?	WHO	WIO	ILO	ITO	C	GENERAL
1	How does the rhyme continue? "Don't look back, the ..." is coming	Turkish	mummy	wolf	pliers	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is the most populous state on Earth?	India	Indonesia	Russia	China	D	COUNTRIES
3	What is the commonly known abbreviation of the International Football Association?	UEFA	FIFA	MLSZ	BLAZ	B	SPORTS
4	What is Nandorfehervar's current name?	Zagreb	Belgrade	Vojvodina	Szekesfehervar	B	LANGUAGE
5	What is the origin of our foreign word "college"?	German	French	Latin	Slavic	C	LANGUAGE
6	Istvan Bujtor directed a film from which of Jen Rej's works?	The Invisible Legion	Bone Brigade	The three bodyguards in Africa	Dirty Fred, the captain	C	MOVIE
7	Where did black coffee diluted with milk get its name, kapuciner?	About the city of ujkapu	about the color of a monk's robe	from the name of a Turkish bey	about medieval tax collectors	B	LANGUAGE
8	Which inventor was Puskas Tivadar's colleague?	Graham Bell	Thomas Edison	Werner Siemens	Heinrich Hertz	B	TECHNIQUE
9	In which city does the musical Cabaret take place?	in Rome	in Paris	in Wienna	in Berlin	D	MUSIC
10	How many points is it worth if you hit the center of the dartboard?	twenty five	a hundred	fifty	thirty five	C	GAME
11	Who formulated the heliocentric worldview scientifically?	Copernicus	Ptolemy	Galileo Galilei	Giordano Bruno	A	SCIENCE
12	What was the subject that Rembrandt painted almost every year?	portrait of his father	his wife's file	self portrait	room interior	C	FINE ARTS
1	What kind of "bus" were pulled by horses?	trolley bus	omnibus	bamboo	grimace	B	GENERAL
2	What is the sentence used in Casablanca, which Woody Allen chose as the title of one of his films?	Play again, Ken!	Cook again, Sam!	Play again Sam!	Share again, Sam!	C	MOVIE
3	What do you call one of the phases of the development of butterflies?	crawling	puppeteering	puppetry	cocooning	B	BIOLOGY
4	What can't you do with a cute child in a yurt?	to kneel on corn	to wave	corner	scold	C	GENERAL
5	Which of the following names covers corn?	kitty whistle	a deer	juice	a sledgehammer	C	LANGUAGE
6	Which historical figure did Gyula Vikidal play in the premiere of the rock opera Istvan, a kiraly?	Stephen	Astricot	Koppany	Geza	C	MUSIC
7	What destroyed Pest in 1838?	plague	earthquake	flooding	fire	C	HISTORY
8	How many years is the president of the republic elected in Hungary?	three	six	five	four	C	HISTORY
9	Which rock musician was never a member of Locomotive GT?	Tamas Barta	Karoly Frenreisz	John Christmas	Tibor Tatra	D	MUSIC
1	According to the saying, what happens to someone who doesn't do his work on time?	his brain gets denser	the Tartar catches up	the work is on fire	live happily ever after	C	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of "widow" is in the title of Ferenc Lehar's highly successful operetta?	knockout	cheers	straw	hay	B	OPERA
3	What was the name of Robin Hood in the title of Kevin Costner's film?	wolf of dancers	prince of thieves	prince of Fuszeklik	dancer of princes	B	MOVIE
4	When do students use "donkey driver"?	when counting	during gymnastics	when writing	while playing basketball	C	GENERAL
5	What was the wheelchair used for?	for rope beating	for weaving	for spinning	for washing	C	TECHNIQUE
6	Who was Daphnis's lover in the ancient work?	Dana's	Khloe's	Baucis	Venus	B	LITERATURE
7	What kind of animal is the coyote known from the Wild West novels?	wild horse	gray bear	coyote	bison	C	BIOLOGY
8	What kind of "knight" did Margaret Thatcher, former prime minister of Great Britain, become in 1995?	the British Lion	knight of the Queen	Knight of the Order of the Knee Garland	knight of the English Order of Wine	C	HISTORY
9	Which word is not punctuated?	jor-ze-szok-nya	bo-dza-bo age	football coach	concrete jungle	C	LANGUAGE
1	What "fair" did Viktor Jacobi write an operetta about?	dog	cattle	girl	flower	C	OPERA
2	Steven Spielberg made a hit horror movie about which animal?	about a vulture	about a whale	about a shark	about a seagull	C	MOVIE
3	According to Vorosmarty's poem, what is the destroyer of life?	the money	the politics	daydreaming	the diet	C	LITERATURE
4	What does the name dingo mean?	gambling	sweet fruit	wild dog	rider intended	C	LANGUAGE
5	The Gulf War broke out in 1991 due to the invasion of Iraq by which country?	Arab Emirates	Kuwait	Qatar	Oman	B	HISTORY
6	What does cedar look like according to the title of Csontvary's picture?	dried up	powerful	lonely	flourishing	C	FINE ARTS
7	What is the American basketball team called?	Amazing team	They are giants	Dream Team	The first ones	C	SPORTS
8	What "circus" was the title of the popular children's program on the radio in the fifties?	Bum-Bum	Clicicsala	Chinn-Boom	He pulled me in	C	GENERAL
9	Who is the protagonist of the 1999 film The World Is Not Enough?	Sherlock Holmes	Batman	Superman	James Bond	D	MOVIE
10	Who was arpad's co-principal at the time of the conquest?	Take it off	Jutocsa	On course	Door	C	HISTORY
1	Whose wings of wax melted near the Sun?	Daedalus	Icarus	Boeings	Tupolev	B	RELIGION
2	What unit of length is used in astronomy?	kilometer	miles	Aras	light years	D	SCIENCE
3	What did Robinson name his native servant after?	about a ship captain	of his great-grandfather	about your foot size	from one day of the week	D	LITERATURE
4	What or who was called the Black Death in the Middle Ages?	the executioner	the plague	the pitch	the chief inquisitor	B	HISTORY
5	Which Beatles member was Yoko Ono married to?	Paul McCartney	John Lennon	Ringo Starr	George Harrison	B	MUSIC
6	In which country did the "gang of four" operate?	USA	Soviet Union	China	Mexico	C	HISTORY
7	The technical terms for which sport are: weightlifting, discus, shot put?	wrestling	discus throwing	weight-lifting	shot put	C	SPORTS
8	For what purpose were the foundations of the Internet developed?	trade	administrative	military	entertaining	C	TECHNIQUE
9	How many wives did VIII execute? King Henry of England?	eight	six	four	two	D	HISTORY
10	Who was Antigone's father according to Greek mythology?	Oedipus	Creon	Zeus	Agamemnon	A	RELIGION
11	Who created the basic concept of the magnetic field?	Heinrich Hertz	James Prescott Joule	James Maxwell	Michael Faraday	D	SCIENCE
1	Where do they send the person who is not pitied by anyone to pick oats?	For fries	To Kukutyin	For Hencida	Boncida	B	GENERAL
2	What is a well-known word for an insurgent who opposes oppressive power?	gepida	guerrilla	gorilla	guzlica	B	LANGUAGE
3	What do Russians use a samovar for?	for roasting mutton	for headgear	for boiling tea water	for sports	C	GENERAL
4	What did Vilmos Tell shoot off his son's head?	a pear	an apple	a nut	his hat	B	LITERATURE
5	What is the chemical name of table salt?	aluminum nitrate	hydrogen chloride	sodium sulfate	NaCl	D	SCIENCE
6	How did Gittegylet criminalize Ern Nemecsek in the novel The Pal Street Boys?	his name was written in lower case	bathed in the lake	excluded from battle	they took his glass balls	A	LITERATURE
7	Pericles was the leader of which Greek city-state?	Sparta	Athens	Mycenae	Miletus	B	HISTORY
8	What did the stenciler do?	dated	stamped	signed	duplicated	D	LANGUAGE
9	On which river is Cluj-Napoca located?	It's hot	Szamos	Black-Round	Moros	B	GEOGRAPHY
10	Who do we call the hyena of Brescia?	Radetzky	Metternich	Haynaut	Carafe	C	HISTORY
11	Which country does Luxembourg not have a border with?	Belgium	Switzerland	France	Germany	B	GEOGRAPHY
12	What is the Hungarian equivalent of the word sputnyik?	comet	travel companion	missile	sphere	B	LANGUAGE
1	On which mountain peak did Noah's ark come to rest?	on the Swabian mountain	on Mount Everest	on Ararat	Ferihegy	C	RELIGION
2	What can attack computer programs and data?	bacteria	bacilli	viruses	phagocytes	C	GENERAL
3	What was the name of the Roman city on the site of today's Buda?	Gorsium	Aquincum	Stannum	Omnium	B	HISTORY
4	According to KRESZ, which vehicle is a "car connected to an electric overhead line"?	electric	trolleybus	seesaw	gear	B	TECHNIQUE
1	What should everyone sweep before, according to the proverb?	your gate	the neighbor's door	the broom shop	mopping up	A	LANGUAGE
2	Which family's life does the series "Friends" show?	Berenyi	Tailor	Weaver	Thibault	A	GENERAL
3	What do you call the lowest starting price at an auction?	minimum price	advertised price	Starting price	price on it	C	GENERAL
4	In which operetta does the song beginning with "Peter Hajmasi, Pal Hajmasi" appear?	Party queen	The merry widow	Prince Bob	The bat	A	OPERA
5	Which country is named after the equator?	Kenya	Malaysia	Ecuador	Uganda	C	COUNTRIES
6	Which monastic order founder was active in Assisi?	Saint Benedict	Saint Dominic	Saint Francis	Saint Augustine	C	RELIGION
7	Who is the current chancellor of Germany?	Joschka Fischer	Helmut Kohl	Gerhard Schroder	Johannes Rau	C	HISTORY
8	On which river is Cologne located?	Rhine	Maina	Danube	Weser	A	GEOGRAPHY
9	What is the plant colony created from the beneficial coexistence of algae and fungi called?	lichen	fern	Moss	algae	A	BIOLOGY
10	Which of the following substances is not a basic ingredient of bechamel sauce?	butter	flour	milk	egg	D	KITCHEN
11	Which large-scale work is associated with the name of Janos Apaczai Csere?	Bible in Hungarian	the Trilogy	Tibetan-Hungarian dictionary	Hungarian Encyclopedia	D	LITERATURE
12	Which taste can be perceived at the back of the tongue (at the root of the tongue)?	bitter	sweet	sour	SOS	A	BIOLOGY
13	Who founded the city of Carthage?	Egyptians	Vikings	Sumerians	Phoenicians	D	HISTORY
14	Which country's national football team has never won the European Championship?	England	Denmark	Czechoslovakia	The Netherlands	A	SPORTS
1	What sergeant is in the title of the Beatles' famous record?	Paprika	Pepper	Garlic	Chili	B	MUSIC
2	On which sea is Barcelona located?	Black Sea	Adriatic sea	Baltic Sea	Mediterranean Sea	D	GEOGRAPHY
3	In which part of the house did the person who took a nap in the atrium rest?	in the attic	on the roof	on the porch	in the basement	C	GENERAL
4	What animal is featured in Sandor Petfi's poem Arany Lacihoz?	swallow	groundhog	rabbit	dog	B	LITERATURE
5	At which Olympics was this famous sentence uttered: "The Olympics must go on!"?	at the Moscow Olympics	at the Munich Olympics	at the Los Angeles Olympics	at the Atlanta Olympics	B	SPORTS
6	Which Renaissance artist designed an airplane?	Dante	Leonardo da Vinci	Giorgio Vasari	Michelangelo Buonarroti	B	ART
7	What was the name of the far-left terrorist organization active in Italy from the 1970s?	Redshirts	Red Army	Red Brigades	Red Guards	C	HISTORY
8	Which of the following is a Japanese stage genre?	in a calibre	kabuki	Nori	in nippon	B	THEATER
9	Which of the following is in 3/4 time?	tango	polka	minuet	cancan	C	OPERA
10	Which of the listed countries does not have a star in its flag?	Syria	Vietnam	Turkey	Indonesia	D	COUNTRIES
1	According to the saying, what does a worm stuck in a tree do?	minutes	rodent	roar	wiggles	C	LANGUAGE
2	"Sponge it!" - says the saying. What was called a sponge in the old days?	the fog	the silk veil	the sponge	the anointment	C	LANGUAGE
1	What does the proverb say? "Wriggling like ..."	the elephant in the china shop	beached fish	Mass at the cinema	who got mixed up with pigs	B	LANGUAGE
2	In which sport can an apron be given?	in football	in volleyball	in wallball	in archery	A	SPORTS
3	What was the name of Jesus' mother?	Magdalena	Maria	Elizabeth	Sarah	B	RELIGION
4	Which American state was the potato beetle named after?	Buffalo	Florida	Colorado	Kansas	C	BIOLOGY
5	What is the name of the XIX. century Prussian politician, Bismarck?	Minister of Steel	Iron Chancellor	Iron fist	Steel throat	B	HISTORY
6	The operating principle of what comes from Janos Neumann?	the image transmission	the computer	the solar panel	the jet engine	B	TECHNIQUE
7	What kind of animal can be called a jerk?	hen	lamb	donkey	turkey	B	BIOLOGY
8	Where is II. Sultan Suleiman's Mosque?	Pecs	On a glider	In Szigetvar	in Pecsvarad	C	HUNGARY
9	Who is the psychiatrist Marlon Brando's patient in the 1995 romantic comedy?	Casanova	Don Quixote	Don Juan de Marco	Lope de Vega	C	MOVIE
10	After whom or what was the name of the type of coffee called mocha?	from Ethiopian mountains	from a port city in Yemen	about an Arab sheikh	about a Boer planter	B	LANGUAGE
1	Which building name can be the prefix of basement?	mansion	palace	pagoda	castle	B	LANGUAGE
2	Who is not one of Dumas' three bodyguards?	Athos	Porthos	Aramis	Cyrano	D	LITERATURE
3	What is the fifth solmization note?	la	tree	re	 weave	D	OPERA
4	What do you name the child of white and Native American parents?	Mestizo	mulatto	Eskimo	albino	A	BIOLOGY
5	Which sea did the Jews cross when escaping from Egypt?	Black Sea	Dead Sea	Mediterranean Sea	Red Sea	D	RELIGION
6	What was the name of Batman's opponent in the first film of Tim Burton's series?	about a chess piece	about a roulette combination	from a deck of cards	about a dance step	C	MOVIE
7	How is "Globe" connected to Shakespeare's name?	title of his piece	Place of birth	it was his theater	she was his actress	C	THEATER
8	Which of the following types of wine is of Spanish origin?	Porto	burgundy	sherry	burgundy	C	KITCHEN
1	How does the saying continue? "Wherever he steps, there..."	the ground rumbles	no grass grows	water flows	time stops	B	LANGUAGE
2	How do you indicate the quality of asu wines?	with barrel number	with cluster number	with press number	with putton number	D	KITCHEN
3	Who is Gabor Bochkor's partner in the program Kesz swindle show?	Pokrivtsak Monika	Lajos Boros	Antonia is strong	Gabor Forgach	B	GENERAL
4	Where was the legendary rock festival in the summer of 1969?	in Sacramento	In Woodstock	in Seattle	in London	B	MUSIC
5	Who comes to Totek in Istvan orkeny's work?	a box maker	an American relative	a tax inspector	a major	D	LITERATURE
6	Where did the first crusade start?	To Egypt	to India	to the Holy Land	Against Byzantium	C	HISTORY
7	Where did Janos Arany teach?	On a whim	In trouble	in Eger	Nagykros	D	LITERATURE
8	How many times a day does a true Muslim pray?	three times	seven times	five times	four times	C	RELIGION
9	Csovanyos is the highest point of which Hungarian mountain range?	Mosques	Seedling	Beech tree	Purse	D	GEOGRAPHY
10	When were the Extraordinary Olympic Games held?	in 1926	in 1922	in 1910	in 1906	D	SPORTS
1	How "seedy" can a hen be?	barley	hemp	rye	veto	B	LANGUAGE
2	CIA stands for which American organization?	fire department	moral policing	secret Service	Ministry of War	C	COUNTRIES
3	What kind of animal is a monitor lizard?	crocodile	F.A.Q	 shark	monkey	B	BIOLOGY
4	What is the name of the upper house of the English parliament?	Windsor House	House of Nobles	House of Lords	House of Lords	C	HISTORY
5	Which of the following is not one of the seven Hungarian tribes?	Jeno	Neck	It works	Pesny	D	HISTORY
6	Who among the following wrote a play about St. Johanna?	GB Shaw	Oscar Wilde	Neil Simon	Jean Giraudoux	A	LITERATURE
7	What kind of kitchen operation is abalone?	shredding	toasting	cooking	baking	C	KITCHEN
8	Who explains to the little prince in Saint-Exupery's book that one sees well only with one's heart?	The flower	The pilot	The snake	The Fox	D	LITERATURE
9	After whom were the harsh judgments named "Draconian judgments"?	about a Spartan general	of a Roman governor	about an Athenian legislator	about a teacher in Alexandria	C	HISTORY
1	How does amber sleep in deep sleep according to the saying?	like the owl	like the fur coat	like sleeping milk	like the tram	B	LANGUAGE
2	What was the name of the landlords' right to pass and carry out a death sentence?	stake law	executioner's bull	junk article	pallos right	D	HISTORY
3	Where was Jesus born?	In Jerusalem	in Haifa	in Bethlehem	In Nazareth	C	RELIGION
1	Where is the little duck going in the children's song?	to his father in Finland	to his mother in Poland	to his aunt's in Shanghai	to his uncle in Alaska	B	LITERATURE
2	At how many degrees Celsius does water boil?	at 120 °C	at 100 °C	at 80 °C	at 1000 °C	B	SCIENCE
3	Who or what is called a dacha?	Siberian wild goose	Don Cossacks	Russian holiday	Georgian black tea	C	LANGUAGE
4	About which fish did Schubert write music for five instruments?	about squid	about the tuna	about the salmon	about the trout	D	OPERA
5	Which name does not represent the same city?	Constantinople	Istanbul	Byzantium	Baghdad	D	GEOGRAPHY
6	Which plant is called female petal?	the tulip	the orchid	the iris	the narcissist	C	BIOLOGY
7	Which fruit name matches the name of a type of beef?	almond	spinning wheel	hazelnut	walnut	D	KITCHEN
8	What is the name of the change used in Portugal?	escudo	centavo	peseta	centimeter	B	COUNTRIES
1	Who or what do they catch up to sooner than the lame dog?	the jogger	the lying man	the tram	the sloth	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is the title of Verne's novel? "Captain Grant ..."	childhood	beard	his children	into the wall	C	LITERATURE
3	In what posture does the famous sculptor Rodin depict the thinking man?	backward looking	elbow on the knee	squat	lying on its side	B	FINE ARTS
4	Which was not one of the three slogans of the French Revolution?	brotherhood	friendship	equality	freedom	B	HISTORY
5	What are the decorative initials of medieval codices called?	bull	scriptor	initial	margin	C	HISTORY
6	What instrument factory did Ignaz Bosendorfer found in the 19th century?	piano	organ	violin	trumpet	A	OPERA
7	A shade of which color was named after the famous painter Titian?	blue	green	red	yellow	C	FINE ARTS
8	From which country did Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mother Teresa come?	From India	From Poland	From Albania	from Italy	C	GENERAL
9	In which of our counties is there a village called Egervar?	Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok	Fierce	Zala	Somogy	C	GEOGRAPHY
10	Who won the Roland Garros tennis tournament in Paris in 1999?	Yevgeny Kafelnikov	Andre Agassi	Pete Sampras	Ilie Philippoussis	B	SPORTS
1	Why don't you need a company, according to the saying?	good company	for a good horse	for good wine	good for skin	C	LANGUAGE
2	Who was the XIX. Joska Sobri known from 19th century history?	primate	traveling actor	outlaw	March youth	C	HISTORY
3	In which historical period does the musical "Somewhere in Europe" take place?	in the age of chivalry	during the industrial revolution	the II. after World War II	at the time of the conquest	C	MUSIC
4	In which city is Storno House located?	in Sopron	Kszeg	in Veszprem	Tatan	A	HUNGARY
5	What disease can St. Balazs's name be associated with?	diphtheria	measles	polio	scarlet	A	BIOLOGY
6	What nationality was the author of the novel Quo Vadis?	Polish	English	Italian	Russian	A	LITERATURE
7	Who fought in the War of the Roses?	English against French	English against English	Hungarians against Turks	Turks against Austrians	B	HISTORY
8	Where is the secretion obtained from ambergris vinegar used?	in culinary arts	in the cosmetics industry	in fishing	in motor oil production	B	BIOLOGY
9	Which band was Sting a member of?	A bit	Genesis	Yes	Police	D	MUSIC
1	Who Told the Tales of the Thousand and One Nights?	Leila, the Arabian demon	Benedict Elek	Simba	Seherazade's	D	LITERATURE
2	Which of the following is not the name of a dish made with rice?	risotto	risibizi	rice cooker	ream	D	KITCHEN
3	How do the main characters of the film Oz, the wonder of wonders get to Emerald City?	on the diamond road	on the silk road	on the yellow stone road	by rail	C	MOVIE
4	What is the name of the drainage pipes protruding from the front wall of medieval buildings?	Aquarius	water sink	vomiting	gargoyle	D	ARCHITECTURE
5	Aquarists do which of the following?	by making water paintings	by collecting rare books	by breeding ornamental fish	by collecting old objects	C	GENERAL
6	Which capital city is not located in Asia?	Islamabad	Tripoli	Beirut	Bangkok	B	COUNTRIES
1	A language barrier arose during the construction of which tower?	tower of Babel	the Eiffel Tower	the Leaning Tower of Pisa	the Margitsziget water tower	A	GENERAL
2	Which "nest" is the name of a cake?	swallow	cuckoo	wasp	crow	C	KITCHEN
3	Who is the title character of Ede Szigligeti's comedy?	Liliomfi	Spirit man	Cloud guy	Foxy	A	LITERATURE
4	What was the constant theme of the flower songs?	gardening	the summer	the love	the bees	C	LITERATURE
5	Who wears the saree?	Buddhist monks	Maori aborigines	indian women	Chinese farmers	C	GENERAL
6	Where does the Zagyva flow into the Tisza?	At Csongrad	near Tiszaujvaros	In Szeged	At Szolnok	D	GEOGRAPHY
7	Who succeeded Leonid Brezhnev at the head of the Soviet party leadership?	Andrei Gromyko	Yuri Andropov	Konstantin Chernyenko	Mikhail Gorbachev	B	HISTORY
8	What is the symbol of Saint Mark in works of art?	Bull	winged man	Lion	eagle	C	FINE ARTS
9	Who is considered the creator of jazz rock?	Miles Davis	Gil Evans	John McLaughlin	Chick Corea	A	MUSIC
1	What is lore?	riding shirt	horse grooming spirit	drink of riders	card game	D	LANGUAGE
2	Imre Kalman wrote a highly successful operetta about which countess?	Marica	Ladybug	Terike	Borika	A	OPERA
3	Fidel Castro is the president of which country?	Chile	Nicaragua	Cuba	Haiti	C	HISTORY
4	What did the upset Othello ask Desdemona before the fatal act?	Has Cassio visited you?	What did you cook?	Have you written a will?	Have you prayed?	D	LITERATURE
1	Complete the sentence: "He who loves flowers is bad..."	you can't be a gardener	a person cannot	you can't like it	cannot eat humans	B	LANGUAGE
2	Who wore the toga?	Gallic slaves	Roman citizens	Sumerian priests	Chinese tangerines	B	HISTORY
3	Which saint's name is the beetle that lights up at night?	Saint John	Saint Francis	Saint Peter	Saint Ignatius	A	BIOLOGY
4	What does the person who carries a paraplegia expect?	that you will read	to get hungry	that they will be certified	that it will rain	D	GENERAL
5	Who broadcast the legendary 6:3 Hungarian-English football match?	Tamas Vitray	Gyorgy Komjathy	Gyorgy Szepesi	Paul Ipper	C	SPORTS
6	Which is the fastest short-distance running land animal?	emu	cheetah	panther	jaguar	B	BIOLOGY
7	What kind of living creature is a shrew?	insect	mushroom	singing bird	runner beans	B	BIOLOGY
8	Who fell down before the greatness of the nation?	Ferenc Deak	Sandor Petofi	Istvan Szechenyi	Lajos Kossuth	D	HISTORY
9	In which opera is "Poison Garia" performed?	Bellini: Standard	Donizetti: Lammermoor's Lucia	Ponchielli: Gioconda	Puccini: Bohemian Life	C	OPERA
1	What should not be put off until tomorrow, according to the proverb?	what you can eat today	which you can do today	which you can buy today	that you can find today	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of "bite" is the back of a roasted or boiled poultry called?	hunchbacked	bishop	greasy	fine	B	KITCHEN
3	What are the names of the two species of elephants alive today?	Nile and Amazonian	Asian and Bengali	African and Indian	Alaskan and Manchurian	C	BIOLOGY
4	Where can you see the "Forbidden City"?	in Jakarta	in New Delhi	in Beijing	in Tibet	C	HISTORY
5	Which sentence expresses that someone is only pretending to repent?	He was visibly sorry for his sins	He apparently repented of his sins	He seems to have repented of his sins	He seemed to repent of his sins	D	LANGUAGE
6	Who crossed the Bridge of Sighs in Venice?	the judges	the virgins	the convicts	the lepers	C	HISTORY
7	Where is Thomas Mann's novel Magic Mountain set?	in a sanatorium	in a ski resort	in Tibet	On Mount Horeb	A	LITERATURE
8	In which city did Professor Christian Barnard perform the first successful human heart transplant?	in Montreal	in Melbourne	in Paris	In Cape Town	D	BIOLOGY
9	Who directly succeeded Saint Laszlo on the Hungarian throne?	II. Andrew	Robert Karoly	II. (Blind) Bela	Kalman Konyves	D	HISTORY
10	Who is the Hungarian poet whose muse was Roza Szegedy?	Laszlo Arany	Golden John	Sandor Kisfaludy	Karoly Kisfaludy	C	LITERATURE
1	What Fredi did the band Omega sing about?	Trumpeter	Verklis	Kettle drummer	The Flintstones	A	MUSIC
2	What dish got its name from Palpuszta?	cottage cheese	fish soup	cheese	kefir	C	KITCHEN
3	Who killed Queen Gertrud in Jozsef Katona's drama?	Tibor	Sorry, sorry	Peter cares	Biberach	B	LITERATURE
4	What is Istvan Szechenyi called?	the sage of the home	the largest Hungarian	the hermit of Nagycenk	the conscience of the nation	B	HISTORY
5	Augusto Pinochet was the dictator of which country?	Argentina	Paraguay	Cuba	Chile	D	HISTORY
6	What is another name for yellow thrush?	it's buzzing	nightingale	skylark	mallow	D	LANGUAGE
7	Kiss me, Katam! was based on which Shakespeare play? the musical?	A comedy of errors	Tit for tat	The naughty lady	Much ado about nothing	C	LITERATURE
8	What do we call the holy war of Islam?	snooze	to hijra	Ramadan	jihad	D	RELIGION
9	What is the abbreviation for the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade?	GCA	TMG	GATT	TAFC	C	GENERAL
10	At which Olympics was the Canadian short-distance runner Ben Johnson disqualified for doping?	in Barcelona	In Seoul	in Atlanta	in Los Angeles	B	SPORTS
11	Which country's languages are spoken: French, Volot, Serer, Mandinak, Diola?	Guinea	Senegal	Niger	Cameroon	B	LANGUAGE
12	During whose reign did the Roman Colosseum begin to be built?	Nero	Augustus	Vespasian	Trajan	C	HISTORY
1	What is the name of the tiger in The Jungle Book?	Bagira	Sir Khan	Genghis Khan	Mohican	B	LITERATURE
2	What was Vackor the teddy bear like in the story?	makes little sense	silkworm	pee	saucer	C	LITERATURE
3	Whose pagan name was Vajk?	Prince Geza	Prince arpad	St. Stephen	Saint Laszlo	C	HISTORY
4	Which bird does not build a nest?	hummingbird	stork	emperor penguin	egret	C	BIOLOGY
5	What prize is awarded to the best film at the Cannes Film Festival?	Golden Cedar	Golden Bear	Golden Palm	Golden Globes	C	MOVIE
6	Tomatoes are not related to which plant?	with the potatoes	with the eggplant	with the paprika	with the cucumber	D	BIOLOGY
7	Who used to be called the natural son of a father?	the youngest boy	the eldest son	the illegitimate son	the adopted son	C	GENERAL
8	Which of the following foods is necessary for marinating?	semolina	cheese	vinegar	sour cream	C	KITCHEN
1	According to the saying, what do they do with an unwanted suitor?	sweeps away	get kicked out	will be caned	they knock it out	B	LANGUAGE
2	In which city is there a nuclear power plant?	in Dunaujvaros	Ozdon	Pakson	A hundred piles	C	HUNGARY
3	What is the official name of the pawn chess piece?	on foot	footed	serf	music	A	GAME
4	Zulus are the inhabitants of which continent?	Australia	 Asia	South America	Africa	D	COUNTRIES
5	Which word was spelled incorrectly?	kilogram	monogram	autograph	chart	C	LANGUAGE
6	Which of the following is not a great ape?	orangutan	chimpanzee	collared baboon	gorilla	C	BIOLOGY
7	Who is the French revolutionary murdered by Charlotte Corday?	Marat	to Robespierre	Danton	Saint-Just	A	HISTORY
8	Where is the Blue Painter's Museum located in Hungary?	It sucks	Veszprem	Pope	Zirc	C	HUNGARY
9	Who won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1999?	Robert Merle	Jose Saramago	Gunter Grass	Bohumil Hrabal	C	LITERATURE
1	Why must the snail come out according to the children's song?	because it's warmer outside	because the relatives came	because his house is on fire	because he entered the wrong house	C	LITERATURE
2	What instrument did Louis Armstrong play?	trombone	on saxophone	Poznań	on trumpet	D	MUSIC
3	What were the Hungarian elections of 1947 called?	blue label	price tag	half slip	labeling	A	HISTORY
4	Who works with stationary?	hairdressers	photographers	cooks	tanners	B	GENERAL
5	According to Hamlet, what is "woman's name"?	nastiness	peccadillo	lust	vanity	B	LITERATURE
1	What kind of person is a nail polisher?	pedicure	trap door	trigger	violent	C	GENERAL
2	What were craftsmen outside the guild called in the Middle Ages?	zugi industrialists	two left-handed craftsmen	counters	masks	C	HISTORY
3	What is the average resting heart rate of a healthy person?	120-140 / min	90-100 / min	30-40 / minute	60-80 / minute	D	BIOLOGY
4	What does the hairdresser do with the hair when he highlights it?	cut to size	paints	it is combed into a bun	dries it	B	GENERAL
5	According to the Bible, who did the elders watch while taking a bath?	Zsuzsanna	Salome	Esther	Judith	A	RELIGION
6	Which animal is a marsupial?	antelope	panda	koala	raccoon	C	BIOLOGY
7	Which of the following is the title of a Hemingway novel?	Paella	Malaga	Fiesta	Matador	C	LITERATURE
8	Who among the following famous people emptied the poison cup?	Aristotle	Socrates	Plato	Archimedes	B	LITERATURE
9	Which stage of beer production is called malting?	the beer fermentation	beer cooling	the barley sprouting	the brewing	C	GENERAL
1	What is the name of the score from which the conductor conducts?	tincture	score	torture	high school graduation	B	OPERA
2	If a business is in deficit, then without a doubt...	profitable	unprofitable	illegal	the big fish eats it	B	LANGUAGE
3	What flower was the Hungarian revolution of 1918 named after?	tube rose	peony	aster	wild rose	C	HISTORY
4	What is called a Christmas tree in the old days?	the trouser leg	the dilapidated cottage	the ladik	the leech	D	LANGUAGE
5	Who was the XVIII. the leader of the language reform movement starting at the end of the 20th century?	Peter Pazmany	Mikes Clement	Ferenc Kazinczy	Janos Batsanyi	C	LANGUAGE
6	Nelson Mandela, the former legendary civil rights fighter, became the head of state of which country?	Republic of South Africa	Angola	USA	Mozambique	A	HISTORY
7	Who founded Georgikon in Keszthely?	Gyorgy Festetics	Moric Esterhazy	Ferenc Szechenyi	Jen of Savoy	A	HISTORY
8	Which of our Budapest theaters presented the musical The Attic?	the Vígsthínhaz	the Madach Theater	the Thalia Theater	the Operetta Theater	A	THEATER
9	In which of the following films did Zoltan Latinovits not play?	The golden man	Stars of Eger	A Hungarian nabob	Sons of a man of stone	D	MOVIE
1	What is the top of the Hungarian card called?	he's a goof	goof	pumpkin	Thursday	A	GAME
2	Who is Tom Sawyer's friend in Mark Twain's novel?	Harry Potter	Adrian Mole	Huckleberry Finn	the beggar and the prince	C	LITERATURE
3	How many edges does a cube have?	6	12	8	4	B	SCIENCE
4	What is Arnold Schwarzenegger's ancestry?	Austrian	Swedish	Belgian	Dutch	A	MOVIE
5	According to KRESZ, where can a closed group of pedestrians not move at a steady pace?	in the subway	at a railway crossing	on a bridge	on the road	C	GENERAL
6	Which of the following dishes is made from unleavened dough?	golden dumpling	it's browning	pizza	strap-on	D	KITCHEN
7	Which statement is not true about the hedgehog?	hunts at night	eats the snail	sleeps in winter sleep	lives in large families	D	BIOLOGY
8	What animal is on Denmark's coat of arms?	eagle	Lion	wolf	deer	B	COUNTRIES
9	Where are Zrínyi and Frangepan in Viktor Madarasz's painting?	On the walls of Szigetvar	in the Vienna prison	on wild boar hunting	in the Turkish camp	B	FINE ARTS
10	Who were the burkus known from fairy tales?	French	Prussians	Venetians	Spaniards	B	HISTORY
1	How does the saying continue? "It's good everywhere, but..."	how much more!	best home!	it will get worse!	not enough!	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which city is symbolized by the famous clock tower, Big Ben?	Melbourne	new York	Stockholm	London	D	COUNTRIES
3	What is icce?	old space unit	boring word	shepherd food	joke without a joke	A	LANGUAGE
4	Whose brain surgery is the novel "Journey around my skull" about?	Mihaly Babits	Frigyes Karinthy	Jules Verne	Victor Hugo	B	LITERATURE
5	In which stadium did the tragedy that claimed 39 victims occur in 1985, at the European Championship final?	in the Heysel Stadium in Brussels	in Munich's Olympic Stadium	at the Ajax stadium in Amsterdam	in the Vienna Prater	A	SPORTS
6	Where did icon painting come from?	From Egypt	From Byzantium	From New Guinea	From Rome	B	ART
7	Who was the first Hungarian governor?	Miklos Zrínyi	II. Ferenc Rakoczi	Janos Hunyadi	Prince Geza	C	HISTORY
8	Who or what are the bodobacs?	insects	wild flowers	medieval guild masters	roofers	A	LANGUAGE
1	What is the back of the common horse, according to the saying?	chimney	cottage cheese	tight	flea	B	LANGUAGE
2	How does someone who wants to signal that they have finished eating put down their knife and fork?	laid on the tablecloth	resting on the edge of the plate	across the plate	parallel on the plate	D	GENERAL
3	What did Lajos Landerer and Gusztav Heckenast own?	to prison	telegraph office	for printing	for a coffee house	C	HISTORY
4	Which chemical element makes up most of the air?	oxygen	sodium	hydrogen	nitrogen	D	SCIENCE
5	Which world-famous painting also bears the name Gioconda?	Renoir: The Woman Reader	Goya: Naked Maya	Leonardo: Mona Lisa	Szinyei: The woman in purple	C	FINE ARTS
6	Who were the Summians?	agricultural workers	bank employees	retailers	private secretaries	A	GENERAL
7	The players of which Italian football club are nicknamed "zebras"?	International	Juventus	Turin	AC Milan	B	SPORTS
8	Which people's ancient musical instrument is the kantele?	Serbian	Dutch	Albanian	Finnish	D	COUNTRIES
9	What type of music does Animal Cannibals play?	acid	techno	rap	house	C	MUSIC
10	Where was Christopher Columbus born?	in Madrid	in Genoa	in Padua	in Lisbon	B	HISTORY
11	Whose saying? "God forgives, that's his craft."	Rimbaud	Baudelaire	Heine	Goethe	C	LITERATURE
12	Which part of saffron is used to make a spice?	from its stamens	from its buds	from his house	from the pistil	D	BIOLOGY
1	What does the term "piano" mean?	musical instruction: softly	dulcimer	a store that does not sell alcohol	A species of tree native to Africa	A	LANGUAGE
2	What is the title of Goldie Hawn's hit comedy "Beware of..."	from the pear	from the dwarf	from the caretaker	from troubles	B	MOVIE
3	To which biblical city is the concept of language disorder linked?	Babel	Jerusalem	Jericho	Sodom	A	RELIGION
4	How many baby teeth do we have?	22	20	24	26	B	BIOLOGY
5	In honor of which historical event was the group of statues on Hsok Square in Budapest built?	Tartar walking	Conquest	muhi battle	blood contract	B	HISTORY
6	Where does the Bodrog flow into the Tisza?	At Tolcsva	At Mada's	At Sarospatak	At Tokaj	D	GEOGRAPHY
7	Which of the following plants does not reproduce by spores?	ferns	horseshoe crabs	mosses	cypresses	D	BIOLOGY
8	According to the Bible, where did Joseph go after his brothers sold him?	To Phoenicia	to Syria	to Persia	To Egypt	D	RELIGION
9	In which city is the Memorial Column of the Gallic Arabs located?	Veszprem	Mohacs	Szigetvar	Debrecen	D	HUNGARY
10	Afrikaans is a modified, independent version of which language?	Dutch	 English	French	German	A	LANGUAGE
11	Who wrote the piano cycle "Songs without text"?	Mendelssohn	Schumann	Brahms	Ferenc Liszt	A	OPERA
1	If we scold someone strongly, we scold them like ...	Bochkort	Wine	bush	badger	C	LANGUAGE
2	Who was the voice of the legendary Aunt Szabo in the radio show Szabo family?	Nanny Margit	Juci hops	Hedi Varadi	Gobbi Hilda	D	GENERAL
3	Which country is called the "land of a thousand lakes"?	Finland	Canada	Holland	Norway	A	COUNTRIES
4	Who brought news to the Hungarian king about the Tatar danger?	Anonymous friend	Friend Julianus	Friend Lorinc	Friend Tuck	B	HISTORY
5	Which is Beethoven's only opera?	Fidelio	Rigoletto	The magic flute	Prometheus	A	OPERA
1	What bearded prince did Bela Bartok write an opera about?	fall	blue	right	goat	B	OPERA
2	What is the name of a form of draw in chess?	matt	stalemate	check	crash	B	GAME
3	In which city is the bus tour organized in February?	in Mohacs	In Szigetvar	In trouble	Pecs	A	HUNGARY
4	Where does Winnie the Pooh live?	in the wheel forest	at the Operentian Sea	in Szazholdas Pagony	beyond the Glass Mountain	C	LITERATURE
1	According to the saying, what lion should not be awakened?	chain bridge	coward	dormant	toothache	C	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of "automaton" did Kempelen Farkas build?	automatic camera	chess machine	coffee machine	automatic card player	B	SCIENCE
3	On what basis do astrologers predict our life path?	solar flares	the birds flew	the position of the planets	the smell of coffee	C	SCIENCE
4	Who was our last arpad king?	ARC. Laszlo	III. Bela	II. Stephen	III. Andrew	D	HISTORY
5	Who eats the prey in a lion pack?	the leading male	the cub male	the leading lady	the cub female	A	BIOLOGY
6	Who wrote the violin concert series "The Four Seasons"?	Antonio Vivaldi	Johann Sebastian Bach	Claudio Monteverdi	Joseph Haydn	A	OPERA
7	Who do we usually call the doyen of a group?	the excommunicated member	the secretary	the co-chairman	the youngest member	C	GENERAL
8	Who is the famous painter who cut off his own ear?	Gauguin	Cezanne	Van Gogh	Tolulose-Lautrec	C	FINE ARTS
9	What is the name of one of the main characters in the mystery novel The Cursed Coast?	about his slaps	about his smile	about his criminal record	from an animal body part	D	LITERATURE
1	Where does the person who does not want to acknowledge something put his head?	into ashes	into sand	behind his hood	under the arm	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which bird "entrusts" the hatching of its chicks to other birds?	yellow thrush	starling	dove	cuckoo	D	BIOLOGY
3	What is the name of the camera's lens system for recording?	active	passive	objective	subjective	C	TECHNIQUE
4	Who is the lead singer of the Rolling Stones?	Mick Jagger	David Bowie	Elton John	Freddy Mercury	A	MUSIC
5	Which Italian city-state was ruled by the dozes?	Venice	Florence	Naples	Rome	A	HISTORY
6	Which of the following painting subjects could be a pieta?	a bowl of fruit	Mary mourning her son	battle scene	mythological scene	B	FINE ARTS
7	According to legend, who asked whom? "Quo vadis, Domine?" (Where are you going, sir?)	Seneca by Emperor Nero	a gladiator from Augustus	Apostle Peter from Jesus	Ben Hur by Messala	C	HISTORY
1	Complete the sentence. " ... yields, ... suffers."	smart-dumb	smart-ass	donkey-mule	strong weak	B	LANGUAGE
2	What bird is in the family coat of arms of Matyas Hunyadi?	owl	raven	crow	Falcon	B	HISTORY
3	Who or what is called a laptop?	tissue paper	laptop computer	English copier	marsh flower	B	LANGUAGE
4	Which is the oldest bridge in Budapest?	the Elizabeth bridge	Margaret Bridge	the Chain Bridge	the Freedom Bridge	C	GENERAL
5	Who was not the son of the stone-hearted man?	It's over	Richard	Otto	Jeno	C	LITERATURE
6	Who won the first Hungarian Grand Prix in Formula 1?	Alain Prost	Nigel Mansell	Nelson Piquet	Ayrton Senna	C	SPORTS
1	In what unit is the fineness of gold measured?	in grams	in calories	in horsepower	in carats	D	SCIENCE
2	What does kibic give card players?	new hand	good cards	unsolicited advice	chips	C	GENERAL
3	Which river drains the excess water of Lake Balaton?	Sio	For him	Zala	Mark	A	GEOGRAPHY
4	What is the capital of Canada?	Toronto	Ottawa	Montreal	Quebec	B	COUNTRIES
5	What is the name of the main character of the Finnish folk epic Kalevala?	Mika Waltari	Mauno Koivisto	Vejnemojn	Paavo Nurmi	C	LITERATURE
6	How many tennis championships does it take to become a Grand Slam winner?	six	five	three	four	D	SPORTS
7	Who were the bodyguards of Islamic rulers?	the eunuchs	the Mamluks	the effendi	the tubs	B	HISTORY
8	What was the occupation of Svejk, the tall soldier?	innkeeper	field chaplain	dog dealer	postman	C	LITERATURE
9	Which of the following is not a noble gas?	radon	bromine	argon	helium	B	SCIENCE
10	Where was the first World Cup held in 1930?	in Italy	in France	in Uruguay	in Brazil	C	SPORTS
11	Which of the following languages is a Neo-Latin language?	Dutch	Breton	Czech	Catalan	D	LANGUAGE
12	The bishop of which city was Saint Nicholas, who we identify with Santa Claus?	Hippo	 Byzantium	Antioch	Myra	D	RELIGION
1	What is the name of the Three Kings?	Gaspar, Menyhert, Boldizsar	Servac, Pongrac, Bonifac	Sandor, Jozsef, Benedek	Mark, Mate, Lukacs	A	RELIGION
2	What prevents railway cars from getting off the track at railway stations?	track bull	wagon	track goat	train driver	C	GENERAL
3	Complete the title of the novel. "Zorbas, the ..."	Greek	Turkish	dancer	fisherman	A	LITERATURE
4	What kind of furniture is subloth?	table	cabinet	shelf	brain	B	GENERAL
5	What is the largest cat species?	Lion	Siberian tiger	panther	lynx	B	BIOLOGY
6	What is the deepest lake on Earth?	Lake Malawi (Nyasza).	Baikal lake	Lake Tanganyika	Great Slave Lake	B	GEOGRAPHY
7	Where was the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe held in 1975?	Washington	Paris	Geneva	Helsinki	D	HISTORY
8	What is the original name of the legendary Beatles drummer Ringo Starr?	Richard Wayne Penniman	Richard Starkey	Harry Rodger Webb	Lionel Richie	B	MUSIC
9	From whose novel did Zoltan Fabri make the film The Fifth Seal?	Andras Berkesi	Gyula Illyes	Saint Francis	Geza Feja	C	LITERATURE
10	What is the Florentine hat made of?	from straw	from cotton	from cardboard	from a post office	A	GENERAL
11	Who among the famous musicians below has not performed a James Bond movie theme song?	Paul McCartney	Tom Jones	Louis Armstrong	David Bowie	D	MUSIC
1	What did drivers use to start the car engine in the old days?	curvy	verklit	hot dogs	bread	A	TECHNIQUE
2	Which rodent is a computer accessory named after?	hamster	mouse	voles	groundhog	B	GENERAL
3	What resonates "deep in the night" in Sandor Weores' poem?	female laughter	lullaby	sleigh bell	the voice of the old man	C	LITERATURE
4	With whom did Marx co-write the Communist Manifesto?	With Lenin	with Engels	Frankel with Leo	With Rosa Luxemburg	B	HISTORY
5	Who was not the prince of Transylvania?	II. Gyorgy Rakoczi	Gabor Bethlen	John Bottyan	Zsigmond Bathory	C	HISTORY
6	Who denied Jesus three times?	Thomas	Judas	Paul	Peter	D	RELIGION
7	Which part of the dress is the slepp?	the barge	the neck hairstyle	his shoulder strap	the fancy button	A	GENERAL
8	Where can you see a baroque stone bridge in Hungary?	in Eger	Kalocsan	Szentendre	Vacott	D	HUNGARY
9	In which city was the UN founded?	in San Francisco	in Geneva	in Paris	in Newyork	A	COUNTRIES
1	What do we say about the peace-loving person?	tortoiseshell	dove-eyed	sheep-hearted	bunny-like	B	GENERAL
2	Which of the following is the name of a card game?	roasting	peeling	greasing	stewing	C	GAME
3	What kind of "acacia" is in the title of the Szep Ern work?	prickly	purple	flourishing	white	B	LITERATURE
4	What did Peter Pazmany found in Nagyszombat?	observatory	monastic order	newspaper	university	D	HISTORY
5	Who immortalized the memory of Lady Diana with the song "Candles in the Wind"?	Mick Jagger	Elton John	Rod Stewart	Paul McCartney	B	MUSIC
6	What kind of march is the operation of the Chinese Communist Army in 1934-1935 called?	red	bloody	long	strained	C	HISTORY
7	Whose name is the saying associated with? "I came, I saw, I won."	Julius Caesar	Columbus	Alexander the Great	Napoleon	A	HISTORY
8	About whom did Sandor Dallos write the biographical novel The Golden Gate?	About Mihaly Munkacsy	About Istvan Csok	About Jozsef Rippl-Ronai	About Pal Merse Szinyei	A	LITERATURE
9	How many seats are there in the Hungarian Parliament?	357	364	386	405	C	GENERAL
1	How does the saying continue? "Little money, ..."	small country	little soccer	big fur coat	big jacket	B	GENERAL
2	According to the folk song, what is the famous street in Szalto lined with?	with gas pipes	with cymbals	with stars	with jacket button	B	LITERATURE
3	What material is the "Roman dish" baking dish made of?	made of steel	made of porcelain	made of heat-resistant glass	from clay	D	TECHNIQUE
4	What is the main food of polar bears?	plankton	seal	algae	penguin	B	BIOLOGY
5	Which of the following plants is related to the poppy?	poppy	Tulip	geranium	lily	A	BIOLOGY
6	Which of our athletes has won the most individual Olympic championships?	Aladar Gerevich	agnes Keleti	Krisztina Egerszeg	Andras Balczo	C	SPORTS
7	Which of our kings drowned in the Csele stream during the Battle of Mohacs?	II. Louis	Louis I	II. Ulaszlo	I. Ulaszlo	A	HISTORY
8	What is the title of the movie starring George Clooney: "Desert ..."	foxes	sharks	camels	storm	B	MOVIE
1	Complete the sentence: "Even the goat is full, ..."	because he licked the salt	the guide also curls	the cabbage remains too	kohlrabi also runs out	C	LANGUAGE
2	What made British comedian Rowan Atkinson famous?	Mr Pea	Mr. Carrot	Mr. Tomato	Mr. Bean	D	GENERAL
3	Which part of the dress was called a skirt?	the hype	your pocket	the button	his collar	C	GENERAL
4	What is the capital of Bavaria?	Munich	Dusseldorf	Hamburg	Nuremberg	A	COUNTRIES
5	What kind of poultry is the cap?	male goose	female duck	gelding cock	a hen that lays few eggs	C	BIOLOGY
6	What was papyrus made of, for which records were prepared in ancient Egypt?	pigskin	of fired clay	from aquatic plants	from their rubber	C	TECHNIQUE
7	In which city can the Atomium be viewed?	Paris	Brussels	Amsterdam	Berne	B	COUNTRIES
8	Which one is not in a diesel engine vehicle?	carburettor	piston	differential gear	generator	A	TECHNIQUE
9	Which Hungarian celebrity was born in Szdemeter?	Endre Ady	Ferenc Kolcsey	Golden John	Geza Gardonyi	B	LITERATURE
10	Gyorgy Bekesy received the Nobel Prize in medicine for examining which of our organs?	the bed	eye	the ear	the heart	C	BIOLOGY
1	Complete the sentence. "He who has no shirt, ..."	its bubbler	don't take it upon yourself	do not sew a button on it	don't take someone else's	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is the popular name for a part of the Big Dipper constellation?	Milky way	Evening star	Toilet cart	Bruin	C	LANGUAGE
3	What did the ancient Greeks call themselves?	Etruscans	Hellenes	Phrygians	Celts	B	HISTORY
4	Which of the following is not an American car brand?	Ford	Cadillac	Buick	Renault	D	TECHNIQUE
5	What did the bogans produce?	horseshoes	wheels	loaf of bread	brandy	B	GENERAL
6	How many days does Pentecost follow Easter?	50	35	40	always changing	A	GENERAL
1	Why should you go to Debrecen according to the children's song?	to see the flower festival	to walk in the Great Forest	to see the Great Church	to buy a turkey cock	D	LITERATURE
2	What is called a papramor?	the brandy	the fake dog	the dodollet	the lazy cantor	A	LANGUAGE
3	What material do traditional mothballs contain?	naphthalene	nicotine	caffeine	halogen	A	SCIENCE
4	What is octane?	school disciplinary tool	poor quality gasoline	African game animals	astronomical protractor	D	LANGUAGE
5	What color national tourist sign runs through the mountains of our country?	blue	yellow	red	green	A	GENERAL
6	Which city is the seat of Komarom-Esztergom County?	My mosquito	Tatabanya	Esztergom	Dad	B	GEOGRAPHY
7	What disease does the tsetse fly spread?	yellow fever	flu	sleep disorder	malaria	C	BIOLOGY
1	Keep the saying going! "He who makes his bed, ..."	harvest like that	he sleeps his dream like that	stretches until	that's the bet god	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do we call the larval stage of frogs?	algae	tadpole	pond	chiber	B	BIOLOGY
3	Which country was ruled by the Peron couple, also known from the musical Evita?	Argentina	Chile	Peru	Brazil	A	HISTORY
4	Where did pre-haired man step on the moon?	on the Sea of Boredom	on the Portenger	on the Sea of Tranquility	on Zabhegy	C	SCIENCE
5	Where do you build an attic room?	to the basement	to the ground floor	to the mezzanine	into the attic	D	GENERAL
6	Who is called "the savior of mothers"?	Sandort Koranyi	Endret Hogyes	Pal Heim	Ignat Semmelweis	D	BIOLOGY
7	What was Csontvary's occupation until he was forty?	teacher	pharmacist	farmer	surgeon	B	FINE ARTS
8	Where did the Titanic start its fateful journey?	new York	Liverpool	Southampton	Brighton	C	GENERAL
1	What did the first pair of humans use as "clothes" in Paradise?	apple peel	fig leaf	snakeskin	laugher	B	RELIGION
2	Which breed of dog is used for hunting?	the pumice stone	the exam	the commodore	the bobtail	B	GENERAL
3	Which Italian city lies at the foot of Mount Vesuvius?	Bologna	Naples	Palermo	Ravenna	B	GEOGRAPHY
4	What was the name of the telephone service that was the predecessor of the radio?	televangelist	telephone announcer	radio-telephone	telephone news	B	SCIENCE
5	What is the name of the inspector known from the novels of Georges Simenon?	Poirot	Columbo	Maigret	Derrick	C	LITERATURE
6	Who was Miklos Zrínyi, the author of Szigeti veszedelem for the defender of Szigetvar?	his grandson	his great-grandson	son	his little one	B	LITERATURE
7	What is the Israeli unicameral legislature called?	Knesset	Likud	Hagana	WASH	A	GENERAL
8	Which word is spelled incorrectly?	chat	arrogant	smile	last year	A	LANGUAGE
9	In which ethnic group were the horse heads?	for routines	at the Kunas	with the Szeklers	at the streets	C	HISTORY
10	What is the form of government of the Vatican?	constitutional monarchy	papacy	a theocratic kingdom	Republic	C	COUNTRIES
1	Which animal was the title of jr. One of Johann Strauss's operettas?	the turkey	the snail	the seal	the bat	D	OPERA
2	What was the name of the scene performed during the breaks of the theater performance?	reward game	interlude	cat game	away game	B	THEATER
3	Who was Mate Csak?	the inventor of the pickaxe	royal pickaxe master	straw owner	little king	D	HISTORY
4	To which country does Trieste belong today?	Yugoslavia	Italy	Croatia	Bosnia and Herzegovina	B	COUNTRIES
5	Who is usually referred to as the hermit of Eger?	For Saint Gellert	Geza Gardonyi	Istvan Dobo	Daniel Berzsenyi	B	GENERAL
6	What was called an agora in the ancient Greek city-states?	the church	the marketplace	the main gate	the public well	B	HISTORY
7	What kind of fish is included in the popular Japanese food, sushi?	marinated	raw	roast	smoked	B	KITCHEN
8	What is the origin of the hula dance?	Polish	Spanish	Hawaii	Greek	C	GENERAL
9	Donna Anna, Donna Elvira and Don Ottavio are the characters of which opera?	Don Carlos	Don Giovanni	Don Pasquale	Don Quixote	B	OPERA
1	What is the unit of electrical voltage?	there is	there is none	volt	will be	C	SCIENCE
2	What kind of "cannon" is the military mobile kitchen?	stew	goulash	toca	loop	B	LANGUAGE
3	From which coffee house did the Pest revolution of 1848 start?	Batavia	new York	Pilvax	Arcadia	C	HISTORY
4	Which word connection is not incorrect from a grammatical point of view?	automatic machine	harmonious relationship	beastly beast	weekend cottage	B	LANGUAGE
5	Mesopotamian culture developed along which two rivers?	Tigris and Euphrates	Indus and Ganges	Yangtze and Hoang-ho	Nile and Kagera	A	HISTORY
6	In which city is the theater named after Ede in Szigliget?	Kaposvar	Veszprem	Szolnok	Gyula	C	THEATER
7	On which river rests the ferry in the poem, in which "the darkness is silent"?	Tisza	Szamos	Danube	Moros	B	LITERATURE
8	In which country is the Labrador Peninsula located?	USA	Argentina	Canada	Mexico	C	GEOGRAPHY
9	What does the name of the Vosztok spacecraft mean?	South	red	star	east	D	LANGUAGE
10	Whose confessions are in the title of Sandor Marai's novel?	a sinner	a citizen	a world wanderer	an exile	B	LITERATURE
11	Who played the female lead in the western movie Once Upon a Time in the Wild West?	Raquel Welch	Claudia Cardinale	Monica Vitti	Brigitte Bardot	B	MOVIE
1	Where, as the saying goes, is the one I'm angry with?	in my grip	in my beak	in my mind	in my pocket	C	LANGUAGE
2	How do bats sleep?	during flight	upside down	standing	hiding in another's nest	B	BIOLOGY
3	What is the hot plate made of?	from anchovies	from cancer	from oysters	from octopus	A	KITCHEN
4	When is a photo underexposed?	when there is a lot of light	when there is little light	if the distance is long	if the photographer is short	B	SCIENCE
5	In which movie is "Villa Negra" featured?	The corporal and the others	Healthy erotica	Swan song	Skylark	C	MOVIE
1	What does the family doctor put into the ear during the examination?	phonendoscope	horoscope	kaleidoscope	telescope	A	BIOLOGY
2	How many hours does a week consist of?	168	170	144	150	A	GENERAL
3	What weapon did David use to defeat Goliath?	with a boomerang	with a slingshot	with a spear	with a cart	B	RELIGION
4	What did the Portuguese use the caravel for?	for making liqueur	for shipping	for jewelry making	for construction	B	HISTORY
5	Who is found dead in the dark forest of Radvany in Arany's ballad?	Kund Abigel	Barczi Bent	He cares for his two little ones	Klara Zach	B	LITERATURE
6	What is another name for the ancient Carthaginians?	Thracians	Illyrians	Sumerians	they are puns	D	HISTORY
7	Which city is considered the birthplace of jazz?	New Orleans	Memphis	Boston	Charleston	A	MUSIC
8	Which of the following actresses was a theater named after in Budapest?	Eva Ruttkai	Gobbi Hilda	Nanny Margit	Edit Domjan	A	THEATER
9	Where is the International Monetary Fund (IMF) headquartered?	Brussels	 Geneva	 Paris	Washington	D	COUNTRIES
1	What does one do who uses large-scale tools for small-scale purposes?	Goes with Mammoth to catch mice.	He shoots a sparrow with a cannon.	He crochets the socks with a bobbin.	He feeds pearls to the pig.	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is Nora's occupation in the series "Friends"?	lawyer	construction manager	counter	dentist	A	GENERAL
3	Who or what is called a polisher?	politician from the beginning of the century	furniture polish	diplomatic trip	electrons of polonium	B	LANGUAGE
4	What invention does Europe owe to Janos Gutenberg?	the lighter	the bicycle	book printing	the steam engine	C	TECHNIQUE
5	What kind of women's garment was the bodice?	chastity belt	silk panties	corset	knee highs	C	GENERAL
6	What was the title of Jellasics who was defeated at Pakozd?	Prussian general	Transylvanian prince	treats croatian	Imperial Minister of War	C	HISTORY
7	What is the name of the executioner in the Heltai play A nema levente?	Lajos Setet	Old Bako	Bloody Master	Fearless	A	LITERATURE
8	Where is Yellowstone National Park located?	in the Andes	in the Rocky Mountains	in the Atlas Mountains	in the Pyrenees	B	GEOGRAPHY
9	Who hasn't won an Olympic championship in swimming?	Colonial Andrea	Krisztina Egerszeg	Blond Kato	Judit Temes	A	SPORTS
1	According to the saying, what does blood not turn into?	into water	to wine	splash	sleep milk	A	LANGUAGE
2	Which city's landmark is the Colosseum?	Rome	Paris	Vienna	Florence	A	COUNTRIES
3	What was the hand-threshed, knotted rye straw, the szup, used for?	for a hammock	watercraft	for roofing	for pillow stuffing	C	GENERAL
4	What is the Altamira cave in Spain famous for?	about stalactites	of the river system	about his bears	about his murals	D	LANGUAGE
5	Who or what among the following is called a badass?	graying moustache	winter precipitation	Indian dancer	troublemaker	C	LANGUAGE
6	At which Olympics did Laszlo Papp not win a gold medal in boxing?	In 1960 in Rome	In 1952 in Helsinki	1956 in Melbourne	1948 in London	A	SPORTS
7	What Nobel Prize did Graham Bell, the inventor of the telephone, receive?	chemical	didn't get it	physical	physiological	B	SCIENCE
8	What was the name of the first Hungarian theater in Pest that opened in 1837?	National Theatre	Víg Theater in Pest	Hungarian Theater in Pest	Thalia Theater in Pest	C	THEATER
9	Which of Federico Fellini's films was not awarded the Oscar for best foreign film?	Amarcord	On a country road	The sweet life	8 and a half	C	MOVIE
1	Who is the main character of the musical "Knight of La Mancha"?	Robin Hood	John is brave	Don Quixote	Zoro	C	MUSIC
2	The soup named after ujhazy Ede is made from which of the following meats?	hen	cattle	offense	sheep	A	KITCHEN
3	What trained fighting animals are associated with the name of Hannibal, the Punic general?	tigers	wolves	snakes	elephants	D	HISTORY
4	In which sport is it customary to finish with your back?	canoeing	in kayaking	in dressage	rowing	D	SPORTS
5	According to the title, what does Dirty Fred Fulig do to Jimmy's sincere regret?	he slaps	return	intervenes	steps on oil	C	LITERATURE
6	During which activity was the spinning wheel used?	washing	harvest	meal	plow	A	GENERAL
7	Where can we find rocks?	in an orchard	in the mouth of cetaceans	in the mountains	in a mirror shop	B	LANGUAGE
8	The Medici were the lords of which Italian city?	Rome	Florence	Naples	Pescara	B	HISTORY
9	What was the name of successful playwright Jozsef Szathmary?	John Garay	Gergely Csiky	Karoly Kisfaludy	Ede of Szigliget	D	LITERATURE
10	Which country's only neighbor is the Republic of South Africa?	Malawi	Lesotho	Swaziland	Botswana	B	COUNTRIES
11	Who was president of the United States when the armistice agreement ending the Vietnam War was signed?	Ford	Nixon	Johnson	Carter	B	HISTORY
1	Who was the first highly successful rock opera of the author couple Szorenyi-Brody about?	About Pal Pato	About Ferenc Jozsef	About King Stephen	About Janos Hary	C	MUSIC
2	"It's not worth a penny." - we say about the worthless thing. What was called batka in the old days?	grain seed	shirt button	loose change	tiny parasite	C	LANGUAGE
3	Who were called Taljans in the old days?	the French	the Tatars	the Russians	the Italians	D	LANGUAGE
4	What do chess players do with each other's checkers when there is a change of checkers?	is exchanged for a king	they knock each other out	they change color	is replaced by a runner	B	GAME
5	Which vitamin deficiency causes scurvy?	vitamin C	Vitamin D	The vitamin	Vitamin E	A	BIOLOGY
6	What does this term: casus belli mean?	present situation	mitigating circumstance	cause of war	pretty Woman	C	LANGUAGE
7	Who can receive the Goncourt prize?	athletes	I write	missionaries	composers	B	GENERAL
8	In which Hungarian city does the bell ring at 11 o'clock?	in Szombathely	in Gyr	in Sopron	Kszeg	D	HUNGARY
9	Who created the laws of electrolysis?	James Joule	Louis Gay-Lussac	Humphrey Davy	Michael Faraday	D	SCIENCE
10	Which is the only monastic order founded in Hungary?	Cistercians	Dominicans	Benedictines	Paulists	D	RELIGION
11	Who was not a member of the Batthyany government installed in April 1848?	Lazar the Butcher	Gabor Klauzal	Andras Fay	Pal Esterhazy	C	HISTORY
12	What does the name Costa Rica mean in Hungarian?	good luck	rich coast	thick earth	river with abundant water	B	LANGUAGE
13	In which Sergio Leone western does Clint Eastwood not play the lead role?	For a handful of dollars	A handful of dynamite	The good, the bad and the ugly	For a few dollars more	B	MOVIE
1	Why does the little rabbit go to the forest according to the children's song?	for turnips	for a comma	for a fox	for weed	B	LITERATURE
2	What is the title of Bruce Willis' blockbuster action film "Darling ...!"	take your gun	whisper the secrets	take on a role	give your life	D	MOVIE
3	How many points are there on a dice?	18	23	20	21	D	GAME
4	Where is NATO headquarters?	new York	 Geneva	Brussels	Strasbourg	C	GENERAL
5	Which species of animal cannot have the prefix angora?	goat	cat	rabbit	marten	D	BIOLOGY
6	Which famous astronomer does Adam take on in The Tragedy of Man?	Copernicus	Kepler	Giordano Bruno	Galileo Galilei	B	LITERATURE
7	Whose motto was "Good luck, nothing else."	Imre Thokoly	Janos Hunyadi	II. Ferenc Rokoczi	Miklos Zrínyi	D	HISTORY
1	Complete the proverb! "..., let the horse go!"	I ran out of oats	it has four legs	he has a big head	the hussar gained weight	C	LANGUAGE
2	Where does the croupier work?	in the theater	in a gaming casino	in a museum	on a racetrack	B	GENERAL
3	Which operetta is traditionally played on New Year's Eve?	A night in Venice	The merry widow	The bat	Party queen	C	OPERA
4	Which continent has not yet hosted the Olympic Games?	in North America	in Australia	in Asia	in Africa	D	SPORTS
5	Where do reindeer live?	in the rainforests	on the savannas	around the Arctic Circle	around the Southern Arctic Circle	C	BIOLOGY
6	When visiting Transylvania, they offer pityoka. What will I consume if I accept it?	peach brandy	fries	honey cake	big splash	B	KITCHEN
1	What language is slang called?	thief	massage	gangster	protective guard	A	LANGUAGE
2	Who should traditionally be the first to enter a restaurant according to etiquette?	to the oldest woman	to the youngest woman	to the man	for the toddler	C	GENERAL
3	Which of the following animals can change color quickly when needed?	the arctic fox	the chameleon	the tree frog	the monitor lizard	B	BIOLOGY
4	Where does Bohumil Hrabal's Capriccio take place?	on the island of Capri	on a train	in a brewery	Banska Bystrica	C	LITERATURE
5	Old Shatterhand is a character in which well-known Wild West novel?	The Last of the Mohicans	Winnetou	Leather stockings	Game killer	B	LITERATURE
6	Which American president had to resign because of the Watergate scandal?	Gerald Ford	Jimmy Carter	Lyndon Johnson	Richard Nixon	D	HISTORY
7	What did Kirk turn Odysseus' companions into?	into stone	into a salt idol	for children	into a pig	D	LITERATURE
8	Which of the following is not a percussion instrument?	triangle	xylophone	marimba	spinet	D	OPERA
9	What is the French monk Perignon credited with inventing?	Burgundy wine	the mustard	the champagne	the Trappist cheese	C	KITCHEN
10	Montezuma was a great ruler of which nation?	Maya	Aztecs	Inca	Eskimo	B	HISTORY
11	In which Wagner opera are there shoemakers, goldsmiths, tinsmiths and bakers?	the Lohengrin	The planet in Holland	at Tannhauser	In the Nuremberg master singers	D	OPERA
1	What is worth its weight in gold, according to the saying?	the golden rain	the rain in May	the sleet	the money rain	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is not a plant name?	snapdragon	jug	artichoke	duckling	D	BIOLOGY
3	Which of the following is called a lajbi?	knife	men's coat	milk jug	water-carrying man	B	LANGUAGE
4	What kind of doctor was Dr. Ross from Emergency?	surgeon	anesthetist	dentist	pediatrician	D	GENERAL
5	What is the coat made of?	from semolina	from rye flour	of cornmeal	from fine flour	C	KITCHEN
6	What was the name of the wife of the last Hungarian king?	Elizabeth	Zita	Catherine	Giselle	B	HISTORY
7	Who drank chocolate first?	the Sumerians	the aztecs	the Siamese	the Ethiopians	B	KITCHEN
1	How does a thing disappear without a trace?	in ditches and bushes	with a wound	by the hair	by ear and tail	C	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following card games can be played alone?	canasta	Mary's	solitaire	rummy	C	GAME
3	Who or what does the bigamist have more of than is allowed by law?	from a spouse	from a travel companion	from an apartment	from a car	A	GENERAL
4	What is the title of Geza Radvanyi's classic film?	in the heart of Europe	somewhere in Europe	Europe Express	The conductor	B	MOVIE
5	The social order characteristic of the Middle Ages is called feudalism. What was my fief?	type of tax	iron mining process	fief	royal body	C	HISTORY
6	What kind of fruit got the name Idared?	watermelon	Apple	pear	plum	B	BIOLOGY
7	What is another common name for the cello?	viola	cello	violin	double bass	B	OPERA
8	Where was US President Lincoln assassinated?	in an open car	in a theater	on the street	at a rally	B	HISTORY
9	Who lived in the Potala Palace?	the Japanese emperors	the high priests of Egypt	the dalai lamas	the Inca rulers	C	HISTORY
10	Who is the most successful Olympian in women's gymnastics?	Nadia Comaneci	Olga Korbut	agnes Keleti	Larissa Latinyina	D	SPORTS
1	According to the saying, what is a person whose eyes are knocking?	hungry	short sighted	observant	paraphenomenon	A	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following can be both the name of a lady and the name of a board game?	donna	queen	diva	devilish	B	GAME
3	What is the connection between Columbus and Santa Maria?	his wife's name	his mother's name	the name of your ship	a city founded by him	C	HISTORY
4	Who wrote a ballet about a nutcracker?	Schubert	Tchaikovsky	Rimsky-Korsakov	Delibes	B	ART
5	Who meets in the Capitol building in Washington?	UN representatives	secret service staff	archeology professors	members of Congress	D	GENERAL
6	What did Charles Lindbergh fly over first, alone and non-stop?	Pacific ocean	Himalayas	Atlantic Ocean	La Manche channel	C	GENERAL
1	Which of the following is the name of a cake?	bacteria donuts	cobbler layered	scrofulous	bakamaze	C	KITCHEN
2	What was the name of the sign above the entrance to the shops?	guild sheet	function	company value	hanging	C	GENERAL
3	The Prater is a popular entertainment district of which city?	Paris	Munich	Bratislava	Vienna	D	COUNTRIES
4	What kind of work did the proctor do?	medical	merchant	lawyer	carriers	C	LANGUAGE
5	What are the interests of a person who deals with impalas?	manual work	DIY	classical architecture	a kind of animal	D	LANGUAGE
6	If a disease was cured with nightshade, what was the "miracle cure"?	spoon medicine	leech	chamomile tea	mud bath	B	BIOLOGY
7	Who won the Falkland Islands War in 1982?	France	Argentina	Spain	Great Britain	D	HISTORY
8	Who is Titania in Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream?	amazon queen	Athenian young lady	fairy queen	merry woman of windsor	C	LITERATURE
9	Which of our famous athletes wrote a book entitled "Only the winners are allowed to cry"?	Krisztina Egerszeg	Elek Ilona	eva Szekely	Colonial Andrea	C	SPORTS
10	What kind of giraffe is in Salvador Dali's famous painting?	striated	flaming	eight-legged	two-headed	B	FINE ARTS
11	Where is Sandor Csoma Krosi resting?	in Lhasa	Nagykros	In Darjeeling	In New Delhi	C	GENERAL
12	Who composed the music for the 1974 Oscar-winning film The Godfather?	Ennio Morricone	Sergio Leone	Nino Rota	John Barry	C	MOVIE
13	In which opera is "Ragalomaria" performed?	Rossini: The Barber of Seville	Verdi: Rigoletto	Verdi: Otello	Mozart: Don Giovanni	A	OPERA
1	What does a hungry pig dream about, according to the saying?	with bran	with acorns	with power	with a puddle	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of "teacher" is the title character of Robert Koltai's film?	wow	but	scramble	samba	B	MOVIE
3	During the construction of which castle was Kelemenne Kmíves walled in?	It's gross	Mouse	Deva	Visegrad	C	LITERATURE
4	What was the name of the XIX. the miracle mare that accumulated success after success in the 1970s?	Swallow	Windstorm	My treasure	It's funny	C	SPORTS
5	What does an angler do when he is fishing?	throws in the hook	highlights the fish	feeds the fish	fry the fish	B	GENERAL
6	The Russian man used to be called a muskah. What is the origin of the word musk?	Moscow city	a bulka-like dish	the Siberian hare	a little footwear	A	LANGUAGE
1	Which part of the body is the smallest rhythmic unit of rhythmic poetry named after?	hand	foot	well	abdomen	B	LITERATURE
2	What is the name of the cartoon hero Kukori's "hen"?	Flaky	Bald neck	Kotloska	Kotkoda	D	MOVIE
3	What is the river of London?	Rhine	Seine	Rhône	Thames	D	GEOGRAPHY
4	Which of the following was discovered by Charles Goodyear?	the vulcanization of the rubber	the heat-resistant glass	the paraffin	nitroglycerin	A	TECHNIQUE
5	Who domesticated the cat?	the Incas	medieval monks	the adventurous Hungarians	the Egyptians	D	HISTORY
6	What did the teacher give the students when he gave the syllabus?	grade	warning	lesson	mouse path	C	LANGUAGE
7	Who was the president of the Hungarian Parliament between 1994 and 1998?	Zoltan Gal	Gyorgy Szabad	arpad Goncz	Imre Pozsgay	A	HISTORY
8	Which Hungarian city was called "Athens by Bodrog"?	Tokaj	Satoraljaujhely	Muddy stream	Tolcsva	C	HUNGARY
9	What drink did JS Bach write a cantata about?	coffee	tea	Skin	beer	A	OPERA
1	According to the saying, what is "sour" for someone who cannot achieve something?	the plum	the cucumber	the cabbage	the grape	D	LANGUAGE
2	What do they call an Indian?	wild bison	peace pipe	cake	tent type	C	LANGUAGE
3	How many seconds are there in an hour?	360	3600	60	1000	B	GENERAL
4	In which country was the famous Taj Mahal built?	China	India	Egypt	Pakistan	B	COUNTRIES
5	What is called a hospital in the old days?	the school	the stable	the hospital	the village hall	C	LANGUAGE
6	What is the name of the elephant's offspring?	turkey	calf	guide	colt	B	BIOLOGY
7	What does St. Peter usually have in his hand in pictures depicting him?	wand	rosary	umbrella	key	D	RELIGION
1	Where is the violinist according to the title of the famous musical?	in half shoes	on the mountaintop	on the roof	in the marinade	C	MUSIC
2	Which neighboring people are called in-laws?	the Slovaks	the Romanians	the Serbs	the Austrians	D	COUNTRIES
3	Which subject does not belong to real subjects?	bology	mathematics	physics	history	D	GENERAL
4	What is my lunch and dinner according to the folk poem I started from a beautiful country?	bread	boo	grass	wind	B	LITERATURE
5	Which state has a map of the country on its flag?	Lebanon	Mongolia	Japan	Cyprus	D	COUNTRIES
6	What was called kamasli?	the teapot	the bow tie	the bouquet of flowers	the ankle protector	D	LANGUAGE
1	What is the funny saying? "I'll buy you a tower clock..."	with a tower guard	with a pendulum	with a chain	with a seconds hand	C	LANGUAGE
2	Who is the composer of the rock opera "Jesus Christ Superstar"?	Leonard Bernstein	Gabor Presser	Galt McDermott	Andrew Lloyd Webber	D	MUSIC
1	According to the saying, what does he cut his ax on when he starts a difficult task?	into a blade of grass	into thick bushes	into a big tree	into a rotten log	C	LANGUAGE
2	What does the deaf man listen to on the shore of the dry lake in the children's song?	cricket chirping	splashing water	smoking	walkman	C	LITERATURE
3	What is the title of Bud Spencer and Terence Hill's hit comedy "Otherwise..."	we eat beans	we get angry	we share a slap	we fall on our stomachs	B	MOVIE
4	What tax does the VAT invoice include?	state traffic	general traffic	average fixed	general source	B	GENERAL
5	What was the sectional door originally used for?	to leaven the dough	for shoeing horses	for aging wine	for feeding hens	A	LANGUAGE
6	Who gave the Statue of Liberty in New York to the United States?	the English ruling house	the French people	the native Indians	the German people	B	HISTORY
7	What is cognac made of?	from sugar cane	from pomace	from grain	from wine distillate	D	KITCHEN
8	Who led the losing armies in the battle of Pakozd in the fall of 1848?	Bam	George	Metternich	Significance	D	HISTORY
9	Which of our actresses started her career as a child actor?	Katalin Karady	Gobbi Hilda	Eva Ruttkai	Klari Tolnay	C	THEATER
1	What kind of people are light divers called?	whale	frog	shark	raja	B	GENERAL
2	According to the name, what kind of tree did the Hungarian minor nobles have?	fig	Apple	elm	plum	D	GENERAL
3	What does a ship do when sailors drop anchor?	gets rid of the poty passenger	starts	anchors	shifts to a higher speed	C	GENERAL
4	Which animal is called truffle?	with a cat	with pig	with a weasel	with deer	B	BIOLOGY
5	Who was the father of Prince Szent Imre, who had a tragic fate?	Saint Laszlo	Prince Geza	St. Stephen	Prince arpad	C	HISTORY
6	What is the title of Fellini's world-famous film about traveling stuntmen?	The sweet life	On a country road	Nights of Cabiria	Amarcord	B	MOVIE
7	How does the inn from the drama Julius Caesar sound: "... see you!"	at the Rubicon	At Philippi's	in Gaul	at the pyramids	B	LITERATURE
8	Which European explorer first reached India by sea?	Vasco da Gama	Christopher Columbus	James Cook	Bartolomeo Diaz	A	HISTORY
9	What brandy is cujka of Romanian origin?	plum	peach	juniper	strawberry	A	KITCHEN
10	Vasarely was the best-known representative of which fine art movement?	pop-art	op art	Dadaism	functionalism	B	FINE ARTS
11	What was Nemesis the goddess of in Greek mythology?	poetry	family peace	rebirth	retaliation	D	RELIGION
12	With which play was the Hungarian Theater of Pest, the predecessor of the National Theatre, opened?	Csongor and Tunde	The Tragedy of Man	arpad's awakening	Sorry, sorry	C	THEATER
1	What did I buy at the fair with half a penny according to popular spending?	cotton candy	gingerbread	hen	half a pig	C	LITERATURE
2	Which of the following is another name for tactics?	tiger eyelash	puma dumplings	hyena foot	lion's mouth	D	BIOLOGY
3	In which business was the Ewing family from Dallas interested?	racing horse breeding	oil industry	film distribution	whiskey consumption	B	MOVIE
4	Which of the following is a type of bolt nut?	Parisian	Frankfurt	Dutch	Cologne	C	LANGUAGE
5	In which of our settlements can you see the Tower of Solomon?	in Esztergom	in Nagyvazsony	in Visegrad	in Eger	C	HUNGARY
6	Which of the following is a non-stringed instrument?	viola da gamba	zither	harp	tuba	D	OPERA
7	Based on whose writings did Zoltan Huszarik make his film Szindbad?	Zsigmond Moricz	Dezs Kosztolanyi	Gyula Krudy	Beautiful Ern	C	MOVIE
8	What or who was called a fool in the old days?	Turkish church singer	infectious disease	kind of rose	nightingale	D	LANGUAGE
9	From whose poem was Beethoven's Mode of Joy born?	Dante	Schiller	Horace	Sheila	B	OPERA
10	Which was not the name of a Hungarian county?	A blister	Ung	Arad	Csakvar	D	HISTORY
11	After how many personal fouls does a basketball player score?	four	five	three	there is no focus	B	SPORTS
12	Whose wife was Flora Kozmutza?	Attila Jozsef	Lrinc Szabo	Gyula Illyes	Smoke Milan	C	LITERATURE
13	Based on whose text was Bela Bartok's The Magnificent Mandarin?	Polish Groom	Bela Balazs	Ferenc Herczeg	Lajos Kassak	A	OPERA
14	Which doctor do we go to with our complaint if our faux hurts?	to a dermatologist	to a urologist	to a dentist	to a laryngologist	D	BIOLOGY
1	What kind of animal is the horse louse?	ruminant	seven-spotted	insect with straight wings	slow paripa	C	BIOLOGY
2	What is the sixtieth wedding anniversary called?	ruby wedding	diamond wedding	iron wedding	platinum wedding	B	GENERAL
3	Gyorgy Ranki's fairytale opera is about which king's new clothes?	Arthur	Pomade	Burkus	Matthias	B	OPERA
4	What is the title of Istvan Bujtor's highly successful film: "Just nothing..."	disaster	picnic	panic	silly	C	MOVIE
5	Where is the meat prepared if it is baked in a tube?	in the oven	open fire	fiber	in a cooker	A	KITCHEN
6	Arthur Miller wrote a play about the witches of which town?	Burkitsville	Eastwick	Salem	Hogwarts	C	LITERATURE
1	Which blind animal is said to find an eye?	the horse	the hen	the mole	the blind mouse	B	LANGUAGE
2	Where is the nine-hole bridge?	in Szeged	Bucapusztan	In Tokaj	on Hortobagy	D	HUNGARY
3	Who was the captain of the defenders of the Eger castle?	Gyorgy Szondi	Miklos Jurisics	Miklos Zrínyi	Istvan Dobo	D	HISTORY
4	What is the printer used for?	for electricity development	for printing	for baking bread	monitor cleaning	B	GENERAL
5	In which poem is the quote? "The flower falls, life fades..."	The bush is shaking because...	What shall I call you...	Freedom love!	At the end of September	D	LITERATURE
6	Greenland is a foreign territory of which country?	Canada	Denmark	Norway	Sweden	B	COUNTRIES
7	In which Beethoven symphony does the "Joy Mode" sound?	the III. in a symphony	the IX. in a symphony	the VI. in a symphony	in the V. symphony	B	OPERA
8	What was the name of the child born to Abraham and Sarah when they were old?	Isaac	Ishmael	Rebecca	A horse	A	RELIGION
9	Which American president returned the Hungarian crown?	Gerald Ford	Jimmy Carter	George Bush	Ronald Reagan	B	HISTORY
10	Where did the priors live in the Middle Ages?	in a monastery	in a castle	in a hermitage	in the royal court	A	HISTORY
11	What is the person playing?	babysitting	sliding on ice	swings	he's playing with tongs	B	LANGUAGE
12	Where did the Plantagenet English royal family get its name?	after a kind of bush	after a breed of greyhound	after the name of a courtesan	after a type of lawn	A	LANGUAGE
1	According to superstition, what was the name of a student capable of miraculous deeds?	grabancho	garish	garaboncian	large pharynx	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is the name of the giant ape that destroys New York in the classic movie?	Hong Kong	Godzilla	Me Kong	King Kong	D	MOVIE
3	Which flower is the title of a Jokai novel?	burning poppy	yellow Rose	blue forget-me-not	purple organ	B	LITERATURE
4	Which nation's city was Carthage in ancient times?	Punic	Egyptian	Assyrian	sumerian	A	HISTORY
5	What flavor is the Sacher cake?	marzipan	almond	chocolate	vanilla	C	KITCHEN
6	Who or what do we traditionally call philosopters?	the dragonflies	the helicopters	the ancient philosophers	the humanities students	D	LANGUAGE
7	In which mountains is Andorra?	in the Alps	in the Pyrenees	in the Andes	in the Carpathians	B	GEOGRAPHY
8	Who composed Mussorgsky's piano piece "Pictures of an Exhibition"?	Rachmaninoff	Ravel	Rimsky-Korsakov	Tchaikovsky	B	OPERA
1	What animal name is used for the hussar piece in chess?	cow	hen	Shoot	dog	C	GAME
2	According to the belief, who was chosen by the common people as king on the ice of the Danube?	Matthias Habsburg	Matyas Hunyadi	Ferdinand Habsburg	Janos Hunyadi	B	HISTORY
3	In which fairy tale are Bunny's friends and business partners?	The frog king boy	The fox and the rabbit	Winnie the Pooh	The three rabbits	C	LITERATURE
4	Ferenc Balazs is the lead singer of which band?	Generate	Apostle	Coral	Edda	C	MUSIC
5	Where is the quote from? "If it's a lawsuit, so to speak, let it be a lawsuit!"	Twelve angry people	The ear canal	Introduction to criminal law	Judge Sari	B	LITERATURE
6	Which of the following foods is not an ingredient in mayonnaise?	cooking oil	egg yolk	egg white	lemon juice	C	KITCHEN
7	How many bytes are in a kilobyte?	1000	1024	1012	1036	B	SCIENCE
8	What bird is Han Solo's spaceship named after in Star Wars?	hummingbird	eagle	Falcon	albatross	C	MOVIE
9	Which is the most populous city in Pest County?	Vac	Szentendre	Worth it	Brick juice	C	HUNGARY
1	According to the saying, what does the open man not sell?	parsley	sack cat	dust cat	mat	B	LANGUAGE
2	Whose uniform is Liberia?	footmen	waiters	riders	pilots	A	GENERAL
3	Where did IV suffer? Bela defeated by the Tatar army?	at Mohacs	At Muhi	At the island of Trau	At Isaszeg	B	HISTORY
4	Who is the sandwich named after?	about an Irish sailor	about a French singer	about a Scottish cook	about an English earl	D	KITCHEN
5	What ghost did Oscar Wilde write about?	Canterbury	of Canterville	from Edgehill	strawberries	B	LITERATURE
6	Which water does not dissolve only gold?	royal water	crystal water	golden water	separation water	D	SCIENCE
1	What mistake does Mehemed make in the children's poem?	grasps the cow's udder	grabs the cow's tail	gets into bad company	makes for a bad horse	B	LITERATURE
2	What flavor of banana did the band Metro sing about?	Mint	coffee	chocolate	citron	D	MUSIC
3	What does "double Lutz" mean?	Austrian twins	German pine brandy	type of jump in figure skating	mathematical coefficient	C	LANGUAGE
4	Which of our settlements is called the City of Loyalty?	Kszeg	Sopron	Szekesfehervar	Esztergom	B	HUNGARY
5	From whose work was God brought, Mr. Major! the movie?	Smoke Milan	Tibor Dery	Istvan orkeny	Ivan Mandy	C	MOVIE
6	Which country is called Helvetia in Latin?	Czech Republic	France	Romania	Switzerland	D	HISTORY
1	Who, according to the saying, gets old faster?	who eats a lot	whoever wants it	who was born early	who is not a gossip	B	LANGUAGE
2	What women's hairstyle combed into the forehead, short cut boy's hair style?	queen	cougar	Puli	jack	D	GENERAL
3	From which part of the cocoa tree is cocoa powder made?	from the bark	from its root	from his crop	from the bud	C	BIOLOGY
4	What do Jumurdsas lose in the stars of Egri?	his amulet	his jatagan	his faith	his caftan	A	LITERATURE
5	What weapon is in the title of the action film series starring Mel Gibson?	deadly	cool	silenced	telescopic	A	MOVIE
6	What is the name of the loyal servant of the Toldi family in Arany's work?	George	Ben	Tibor	Bulcsu	B	LITERATURE
7	What does KRESZ call the road traveled with braked wheels?	braking distance	tracking distance	braking distance	course of action	C	GENERAL
8	Which two spaceships joined together to create an experimental space station for the first time?	Vostok-3 and Soyuz 2	Apollo and Vosztok-3	Apollo and Pioneer-4	Soyuz-4 and Soyuz-5	D	GENERAL
9	Which country is not a member of NATO?	Poland	Iceland	Ireland	Portugal	C	GENERAL
10	At which European football championship did Hungary reach 3rd place?	the one from Italy in 1968	the one from Spain in 1964	the 1972 Belgian	of France in the 1960s	B	SPORTS
1	From which country does the dance called samba originate?	From Iceland	From India	From Brazil	from France	C	COUNTRIES
2	According to the saying, what kind of animals do people who go to bed early sleep with?	with the owls	with the bats	with the hens	with the pigs	C	LANGUAGE
3	What was Sandor Petfi's original name?	Sandor Petnehazi	Alexander Petrovich	Sandor Petfia	Sandor Peterffy	B	LITERATURE
4	Steaming is part of which kitchen operation?	baking	canning	washing dishes	seasoning	B	KITCHEN
5	Who was Fred Astaire's most frequent dance partner in films until 1939?	Vivien Leigh	Olivia de Havilland	Ginger Rogers	Judy Garland	C	MOVIE
6	Whose widow did Greek businessman Onassis marry?	Jean Gabin	Arthur Miller	JF Kennedy	Fred Astaire	C	GENERAL
7	What was the original name of the Apostle Paul?	Samuel	Solomon	Saul	Simeon	C	RELIGION
1	Which of the following is the name of a species of bird?	spring snow	summer house	winter snow	Santa	C	BIOLOGY
2	According to Petfi's well-known poem, what is brighter than a chain?	the hant	the will	the sword	the malt	C	LITERATURE
3	Where did the Greek gods live?	on Parnassus	on Helikon	on Olympus	in Dodona	C	RELIGION
4	Who wrote the ballad about Fat Margot?	Vladimir Vysotsky	Golden John	Francois Villon	John Milton	C	LITERATURE
5	Which of our villages has been declared part of the world heritage?	House of Ravens	Sirak	Ravenstone	Lustful	C	HUNGARY
6	Where does Vidrocki's famous flock ring and grunt according to the song?	in Matra	in Bakony	in Cserhat	in Mecsek	A	LITERATURE
7	How many gold medals did American swimmer Mark Spitz win at the Munich Olympics?	six	week	five	eight	B	SPORTS
8	Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike was Prime Minister of which country?	Philippines	India	Pakistan	Sri Lanka	D	HISTORY
9	What was the original name of Hanna Honthy, the legendary operetta prima donna?	Hont Dawn	Anna Horvath	Hugel Dawn	Anna Hagler	C	OPERA
10	What did the vernacular call the Epiphany?	last glass of drinks	the christening	consecration of the crop	the first bite of meals	A	LANGUAGE
1	In the old days, bad students were put on which bench?	donkey	cat	monkey	sloth	A	GENERAL
2	What is the title of the French comedy "I'm shy, but..."	chased by women	I go to therapy	I want to conquer	I want to hang out	C	MOVIE
3	Where did our ancestors wear the Prussian coat?	on the top of the head	on the upper body	on the wrist	on the leg	B	LANGUAGE
4	To which city does the famous Golden Gate Bridge lead?	San Francisco	Los Angeles	Boston	new York	A	COUNTRIES
5	What was the common name of the Russian peasants?	boyars	music	troikas	dachshunds	B	LANGUAGE
6	Who is the quote from? "Home before everything else."	Sandor Petofi	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Ferenc Kolcsey	Ferenc Rakoczi	C	HISTORY
1	What kind of horse do we call a gebe?	the skinny	the thick haired one	the shoeless	the rocking horse	A	GENERAL
2	What did a varga sew?	jackets	tablecloths	curtains	footwear	D	GENERAL
3	What do you call the hot-blooded, heartwarming Mediterranean male type that appears in movies?	Spanish hidalgo	heartbreaking ram	hellenic hurricane	latin lover	D	GENERAL
4	What do the referees judge in water polo if the player kicks the ball into the net?	throwing away	scored a goal	two-minute exhibition	4 meters	B	SPORTS
5	What was the name of the simple calculator of the ancient Romans?	calculus	abacus	lira	Lenia	B	HISTORY
6	It can also be the name of a fish with a lace hem and spiny fins ...	bream	pocket square	spades	gecko	C	GENERAL
7	In which year was the new forint introduced in Hungary?	in 1948	in 1950	in 1946	in 1949	C	HISTORY
1	Who or what is without a thorn, according to the saying?	cactus	rose	mother-in-law	Hedgehog	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is a tambourine?	freshwater fish	Persian ethnic group	instrument	Asian wild horse	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which saint goes with the adjective "Dragon Slayer"?	Saint Laszlo	Saint George	Saint Andrew	Saint Augustine	B	RELIGION
4	What do you call the young boy roles that are usually played by actresses?	tie role	skirt role	cap role	pants role	D	THEATER
5	What spirit is added to grog?	vodka	Borovicka	rum	vermouth	C	KITCHEN
6	Who was called the egg-headed Belgian?	King Baldwin	Enzo Scifot	Maurice Maeterlinck	Hercule Poirot	D	GENERAL
7	In which city were the popes "captive" in the 14th century?	Canossa	Ravenna	Reims	Avignon	D	HISTORY
8	Whose son was the Persian king Xerxes?	To Darius	Daidalos	to Xenophon	to Xanthippe	A	HISTORY
9	Who wrote an opera based on the story of Jancsi and Juliska?	Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky	Giacomo Meyerbeer	Engelbert Humperdinck	Gioacchino Rossini	C	OPERA
1	What is the Paternoster?	grandfather's nickname	garden fun of priests	circular passenger lift	confessional	C	GENERAL
2	With which female name can we express the flora of a given area?	To Leonora	Anastasia	Flora	Emergency	C	BIOLOGY
3	Which animal is said to have nine lives?	to the mouse	for the dog	to the cat	to the horse	C	GENERAL
4	"I said, man: fight and trust with confidence!" Who says this in The Tragedy of Man?	Adam	Eve	Lucifer	the Lord	D	LITERATURE
5	What material is parchment made of?	from papyrus mud	from animal skin	from cedar bark	from the intestines of animals	B	TECHNIQUE
6	Which of the following statements is incorrect?	Not my table	Pulls the strip	He cut his ax into heavy wood	They sell on a mat	C	LANGUAGE
7	Where can you see the tomb of King Andras I?	in the Esztergom basilica	in the ruins of Szekesfehervar	in the Tihany Abbey	in the Matthias Church	C	HISTORY
8	By what name did Gautama Siddhartha become known?	Vishnu	Shiva	Brahma	Buddha	D	RELIGION
9	Which battle is not associated with the name of Alexander the Great?	Gaugamela	Salami	Granicos	Issos	B	HISTORY
1	Where is the truth, according to the saying?	in beer	in the law book	in wine	at the proctor	C	LANGUAGE
2	Andras Kern's first film as a director was named after which ice cream?	Tiramisu	Tarantella	Stracciatella	Cappuccino	C	MOVIE
3	"As if a shepherd's fire burns on autumn nights..." Which work begins like this?	John is brave	Add it	Csongor and Tunde	Island peril	B	LITERATURE
4	During which war does the musical Hair take place?	Gulf War	II. world War	vietnam war	korean war	C	MUSIC
5	What kind of soft drink does the frolicking girl sing about in one of the hits of the 60s?	about lemonade	about raspberry syrup	about coke	about Bambi	D	MUSIC
6	Who founded today's New York City?	English prisoners	Irish farmers	Dutch settlers	Spanish conquerors	C	HISTORY
7	Which of our writers was the wife of Roza Laborfalvi, a celebrated actress of her time?	Kalman Mikszath	Mor Jokai	Pal Gyulai	There is Geza	B	LITERATURE
8	Who was the Chancellor of East Germany when the Berlin Wall was built in 1961?	Willy Brandt	Ludwig Erhard	Helmut Schmidt	Konrad Adenauer	D	HISTORY
9	What did the housewife cook if she made žyrok?	pasta	asparagus	artichoke	pigeon	B	KITCHEN
1	What do they say about a person who leaves without being noticed: "He disappears like the ..."	camphor	cantor	counter	condor	A	LANGUAGE
2	What color was the German Emperor Frederick Barbarossa's beard?	blond	black	right	pink	C	HISTORY
3	Which of the following is a frost saint?	Boldizzar	Theophilus	Boniface	Cleophas	C	RELIGION
4	What is edes Anna's occupation in Kosztolanyi's novel?	actress	maid	teacher	candy seller	B	LITERATURE
5	What material is Michelangelo's David made of?	basalt	granite	marble	bronze	C	FINE ARTS
6	From which of the following did Puskas Tivadar make the world's first?	phonograph	spark recorder	dial telephone	telephone exchange	D	TECHNIQUE
7	What kind of animal hair is mohair yarn made of?	angora goat	vicuña	chinchilla	dromedary	A	GENERAL
1	According to the saying, what good did the living man eat?	bacon	his bread	red onion	tenderloin	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is the fuel for diesel engines?	petrol	benzene	diesel fuel	methane	C	TECHNIQUE
3	What do we call the elongated, thickened back legs of fleas?	chirrup foot	notched foot	jumping leg	knocking of the knees	C	BIOLOGY
4	What is the title of Gerard Philipe's adventure film? "... my wife"	witch	Princess	gloomy	gypsy girl	B	MOVIE
5	What is the name of the hotel attributed to Rousseau?	Facing the kingdom!	Facing the people's rule!	Back to the nature!	Back from nature!	C	LITERATURE
6	What is the state of complete relaxation called in the Buddhist religion?	karuna	today	nirvana	mudita	C	RELIGION
7	The famous arena of which European football club is called the Bernabeu stadium?	Benfica	Olympique Marseille	FC Barcelona	Real Madrid	D	SPORTS
8	Who is the actor's museum in Budapest named after?	Mari Jaszai	Bavarian Gizi	Blah Lujza	Gobbi Hilda	B	THEATER
9	Who was Bill Clinton's Republican opponent in the 1996 election?	Al Gore	Ross Perot	Robert Dole	Michael Dukakis	C	HISTORY
1	According to the saying, what is the consequence of walking slowly?	we will arrive later	we don't warm up	the lame dog catches up	we will continue to mature	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which city is called the "city of lagoons"?	Venice	Rio de Janeiro	Naples	Hamburg	A	COUNTRIES
3	What is the name of Fredi's wife in the cartoon series The Flinstones?	Illa	Irma	Vilma	Helga	C	MOVIE
4	From which Hungarian city did the band Edda start in the late 70s?	Oz	Debrecen	Miskolc	Szolnok	C	MUSIC
5	What did Lorand Eotvos invent?	the transformer	the torsion pendulum	the steam saw	the atomizer	B	TECHNIQUE
6	Who was the love of the famous philosopher Abelard?	Isolde	Heloise	Laura	Beatrice	B	LITERATURE
7	Which basic element is missing from Chinese astrology?	Fire	Earth	Stone	Tree	C	GENERAL
1	What do they make of an undesirable person?	his soul	vintage	hair	legs	B	LANGUAGE
2	What did the teacher write in the student's checker if the student answered incorrectly?	second	secondary	section tour	secondary	A	GENERAL
3	What kind of bird is an albatross?	amphibian	surviving parent	maritime	stunted winged	C	BIOLOGY
4	Whose fairy tales are in the title of Offenbach's opera?	Andersen	La Fontaine	Hoffman	Grimm	C	OPERA
5	Who was the first pope?	Saint Nicholas	Saint Paul	Pius I	Saint Peter	D	RELIGION
6	Which plant is not related to the pumpkin?	cucumber	zucchini	cantaloupe	avocado	D	BIOLOGY
7	Who do we call hidalgos?	Japanese martial artists	ancient bridge builders	Spanish nobles	French revolutionaries	C	LANGUAGE
8	In which year was the Nepstadion handed over?	in 1952	in 1953	in 1950	in 1955	B	SPORTS
9	Who played Richard the Lionheart in the movie Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves?	Gregory Peck	Marlon Brando	Sean Connery	Jack Nicholson	C	MOVIE
10	According to Jozsef Attila's poem Kesei sirato, what happens to whom mother gave birth to?	all disappear eventually	they all fail eventually	all are disappointed in the end	they all find their homeland in the end	C	LITERATURE
11	Which family of plants does the lotus flower belong to?	magic nuts	Venus flytraps	marigolds	lily trees	C	BIOLOGY
12	Who is the painter whose frequent subject was the market square in Seville?	Caravaggio	Goya	El Greco	Velazquez	D	FINE ARTS
1	Who or what records the aircraft's technical data during flight?	the stewardess	the white cube	the black box	the magic cube	C	TECHNIQUE
2	How many discs are there in a mill in the game of the same name?	out of two	out of four	out of three	out of seven	C	GAME
3	What bird says "soon" in Edgar Allan Poe's poem?	parrot	raven	carvallo	crow	B	LITERATURE
4	Who founded the first kindergarten in Hungary?	Georgina Kratochwill	Maria Theresa	Teresa of Brunswick	Brandenburg Barball	C	HISTORY
1	Who or what keeps someone from seeing the forest, according to the saying?	from the mountain	from the hunter	from the deer	from the tree	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which is the life-giving river of Egypt?	Jordan	Euphrates	Ganges	Nile	D	GEOGRAPHY
3	What was the cup used for?	for counting	for travel	for coffee	to make music	B	LANGUAGE
4	With what title did Roman Polanski make a parody of a vampire movie?	Young Frankenstein	Interview with the Vampire	Dance of the Vampires	The father of vampires	C	MOVIE
5	What kind of animal is the osprey?	predator	sea fish	bird	rodent	C	BIOLOGY
6	Who sold their birthright for a bowl of lentils?	Isaac	Jacob	Esau	Elisha	C	RELIGION
7	What people's dance is the polka?	Ukrainian	Polish	Czech	Bulgarian	C	COUNTRIES
1	What happens to Pinocchio in the story when he lies?	his nose grows	blinks frequently	his ears stretch	starts limping	A	LITERATURE
2	What is the nickname of the Hun prince Attila?	horse-eating barbarian	steppe hyena	sulphurous god's arrow	the scourge of God	D	HISTORY
3	What are the "horseless" knights of the Foot Gallop looking for?	the Excalibur	the Holy Grail	King Arthur's parip	the Holy Cow	B	MOVIE
4	Which of the listed is the largest island in Hungary?	Szentendre Island	Margaret island	obuda Island	Csepel Island	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	What did the ancient Roman child have, if he had "style"?	wax tablet	writing instrument	calculator	his blue toga	B	HISTORY
6	What is the name of the Kertesz couple known from the series "Friends"?	Kriszta and Miklos	Moni and Gezu	Magdi and Vili	Esther and Misi	C	GENERAL
7	Which of the following is one of the ingredients of Styrian circumcision?	cottage cheese	cocoa	jam	walnut	A	KITCHEN
1	Jen Huszka wrote an operetta about what prince's name?	Bill	Bob	Joe	Sam	B	OPERA
2	What are they called shaslik?	eagle's nest	hunting weapon	skewered meat dish	binoculars	C	LANGUAGE
3	What did Robin Hood lead the rogues of?	the Scottish Highlands	Sherwood Forest	the southern fens	the port district	B	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following is the title of a play by Plautus?	The freedom soldier	The soldier in his seventies	The lead soldier	The checkered army	B	LITERATURE
5	What were the Olympic winners rewarded at the ancient Greek games?	with a thousand drachmas per head	with a wreath of olive branches	with gold bars	with a victory statuette	B	HISTORY
6	Who wrote the lyrics to the songs of Levente Szorenyi's rock opera Attila, the Sword of God?	John Brody	Sandor Lezsak	Elijah Lajos	Bela Tolcsvay	B	MUSIC
1	Where is the "medicine" according to folk wisdom?	in salt and pepper	in beer and wine	in grass and trees	in the forest-field	C	LANGUAGE
2	In which part of a house does Gabor Presser's musical, presented in 1987, take place?	in the basement	in the garage	in the attic	in the stairwell	C	MUSIC
3	Where was the first battle of the Hungarian War of Independence fought in 1848?	You would pickle	At Piski	At Schwechat	At Trencen	A	HISTORY
4	Who in the Welsh bards should they have glorified in Arany's verse?	Henrik	Richard	Edward	George	C	LITERATURE
5	The following word connections are often used in everyday life. Which conjunction is incorrect?	too big a wall	poignant question	heavy nut	born in a shell	C	LANGUAGE
6	The regime change of which Central and Eastern European country in 1989 is called the "Velvet Revolution"?	Hungary	Czechoslovakia	Poland	Romania	B	HISTORY
7	In which of the following areas did Noemi Ferenczy create a world-class path?	ceramics	tapestry	terracotta	mosaic	B	FINE ARTS
8	Which pop singer's album is called "True Colors"?	Carly Simon	Cyndi Lauper	Suzanne Vega	Gloria Estefan	B	MUSIC
9	Which of the following planets does not have a moon?	Mars	Jupiter	Venus	Neptune	C	SCIENCE
1	Who is tired twice, according to the saying?	the rest	the irresponsible	the precise	the postman	A	LANGUAGE
2	What does the cricket do in La Fontaine's tale The Cricket and the Ant?	collects	steals cheese	he plays the violin	jumps and jumps	C	LITERATURE
3	Which color is not in the flag of Italy?	green	red	blue	white	C	COUNTRIES
4	Which group wrote a song about the heroic days of the radio Szol a radio with the refrain?	Phonograph	Locomotive GT	Metro	V' Moto-Rock	B	MUSIC
5	Whose alliance was the XIII-XVII. century, the Hanseatic League?	Russian fishermen	English explorers	German trading cities	Portuguese colonists	C	HISTORY
6	At which Olympics did we win the most gold medals?	Helsinki 1952	Melbourne 1956	London 1948	Mexico City 1968	A	SPORTS
7	Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical Cats was born from whose poems?	Tim Rice	ETA Hoffmann	EA Poe	TS Eliot	D	MUSIC
8	In which opera can we hear "Levelaria"?	Puccini: Manon Lescaut	Puccini: Tosca	Verdi: Rigoletto	Verdi: Traviata	B	OPERA
9	In which part of our body are pins and rods found?	in the ear	in the tooth	in the nose	the opposite	D	BIOLOGY
1	Where does the steamer go according to the lyrics of the children's song?	blind track	To Kanizsa	into the car park	ruined	B	LITERATURE
2	Which of the following is made of chitin?	the armor of warships	armor of knights	armor of arthropods	the armor of safes	C	GENERAL
3	Which country is called the "land of the rising sun"?	Australia	China	India	Japan	D	COUNTRIES
4	What material were the famous Chinese soldier statues unearthed made of?	from clay	of limestone	of bronze	made of plaster	A	GENERAL
5	What is the name of the big-eared elephant in the Walt Disney cartoon?	Jabar	Dumbo	Jumbo	Babar	B	MOVIE
6	Who wrote the operetta The Queen of Inns?	Jr. Johann Strauss	Jen Huszka	Imre Kalman	Ferenc Lehar	C	OPERA
7	What is the name of Svejk's favorite pub?	Jug	Chalice	The joke is a sailor	Ferencjoska	B	LITERATURE
8	Where was Queen Elizabeth of Hungary assassinated in 1898?	in Geneva	in Marseille	Corfu	Crete	A	HISTORY
9	What role did Paul Newman play in the western Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid?	cattle herder	robber	sheriff	bar pianist	B	MOVIE
10	With which band did Zsuzsa Koncz first sing?	Omega ensemble	Elijah ensemble	Metro ensemble	Bergendy ensemble	A	MUSIC
1	What makes a master, according to the saying?	master's exam	exercise	sinewy	advertising	B	LANGUAGE
2	What fever is Charlie Chaplin's famous film about?	about myalgia	about fever	about gold rush	about pocket fever	C	MOVIE
3	What do Mexicans do with tequila?	they play music with it	they drink it	worn as a hat	they eat it	B	COUNTRIES
4	What is the name of the main character's servant in Mihaly Vorosmarty's Csongor and Tunde?	He's clumsy	Bamba	Set	Suta	A	LITERATURE
5	What material is the rhino horn made of?	bone	shit	hardened skin	petrified lime	B	BIOLOGY
6	What is the old name of Abyssinia?	Iran	Spain	Ceylon	Ethiopia	D	COUNTRIES
7	Which fish swims in an almost vertical posture?	sea urchin	tadpole	bat fish	seahorse	D	BIOLOGY
8	Who wrote "Perckering"?	Ferenc Liszt	Laner	Jr. Johann Strauss	Chopin	D	OPERA
1	Why don't we measure time?	with an hourglass	with a pocket watch	with a sundial	with shepherd's watch	D	GENERAL
2	Which body part or organ is larger than average for Cyrano de Bergerac?	ear	foot	liver	nose	D	LITERATURE
3	Where can we find the BUX index?	at the manicurist	in stock market news	driving test	for post-examination university students	B	GENERAL
4	The initial letter of the name of which city is included in the name of the FIAT car factory?	Turin	Alexandria	Come on	Florence	A	COUNTRIES
5	What kind of animal is the ocelot?	rodent	fish	feline	canine	C	BIOLOGY
6	What is the well-known abbreviation of the International Monetary Fund?	NVA	IMF	IOC	ICC	B	GENERAL
7	What is the name of the circle of Hungarian writers formed around Maria Terezia?	Teresians	bodyguard writers	courtiers	literary lovers from Vienna	B	HISTORY
8	What currency is used in Liechtenstein?	crown	francs	brand	shillings	B	COUNTRIES
9	What does improptu mean?	piano playing for four hands	musical improvisation	stormy musical performance	collection of songs	B	LANGUAGE
1	How does the saying go: "Slim as ..."	straw	vocal cord	stone fiber	reed	D	LANGUAGE
2	What magical instrument did Mozart write an opera about?	horn	bassoon	trumpet	flute	D	OPERA
3	Where is NATO headquarters?	new York	Geneva	Brussels	Strasbourg	C	COUNTRIES
4	Where was Jesus baptized?	in the Nile	in the waters of the Jordan River	in Lake Genezareti	in the Dead Sea	B	RELIGION
5	Where did the trial of war criminals take place in 1946?	in Nuremberg	in Frankfurt	in Munich	in Berlin	A	HISTORY
6	Who played the barber in the comedy Tell the Barber?	Gene Hackman	Jack Nicholson	Dustin Hoffman	Danny de Vito	D	MOVIE
7	Which is the largest peninsula in Europe?	Scandinavian Peninsula	Iberian Peninsula	Balkan Peninsula	Apennine Peninsula	A	GEOGRAPHY
8	In which city is Puccini's opera Tosca set?	in Paris	in Rome	In Venice	in Seville	B	OPERA
9	Which of the following separations is correct?	Shakespeare	Shakespeare	Shakespeare	Shakespeare	D	LANGUAGE
10	Under what name did Robert Allen Zimmerman become world famous?	Ringo Starr	Bob Dylan	Sting	Jimi Hendrix	B	MUSIC
11	Which of the following European countries is not a republic?	San Marino	Malta	Andorra	Iceland	C	COUNTRIES
12	Which club football team has won the most national championships?	Real Madrid	Juventus	Anderlecht	Glasgow Rangers	D	SPORTS
13	What is the nationality of Fortinbras, a character in Hamlet?	English	Danish	Swedish	Norwegian	D	LITERATURE
1	How does the nursery rhyme continue? "Sip-sip-kiss, ..."	ugly caterpillar	wild claw	six leprechauns	blind crow	D	LITERATURE
2	Who or what is the bayonet known from historical films and novels?	baroness	stabbing weapon	Bavarian bride	french sauce	B	LANGUAGE
3	What is the title of the world-famous musical: "The Opera House..."	horn	caretaker	his phantom	his bass	C	MUSIC
4	What is the name of a portable, flexible computer magnetic data storage disk?	CD-ROM	scanner	floppy disc	DVD	C	TECHNIQUE
5	What is a wine strainer?	barrel cleaning tool	sediment of refined wine	part of the grape press	pickled wine	B	LANGUAGE
6	What was the name of a two-person American spacecraft type?	Helios	Juno	Gemini	Mercury	C	SCIENCE
7	Who designed the "beetle-backed" Volkswagen?	Edmund Rumpler	Adam Opel	Ferdinand Porsche	Max Born	C	TECHNIQUE
1	What does the children's song about the tabby cat call for the disappearance of?	skein	sour cream	butter	hot porridge	C	LITERATURE
2	What is the horticultural art of creating dwarf ornamental trees called?	bonsai	banzai	hara-kiri	fujiyama	A	GENERAL
3	What kind of garment is the burnous?	footwear	jacket	pants	turban	B	GENERAL
4	The Brandenburg Gate is the symbol of which German city?	Munich	Berlin	Dresden	Hamburg	B	COUNTRIES
5	How many whole notes are there in a whole octave?	ten	eight	twelve	six	B	OPERA
6	What was the name of the first Balaton steamboat?	Martinovic	Diver Kund	Szechenyi	Small village	D	HUNGARY
7	Which of the listed countries does not have the color red in its flag?	Austria	China	Israel	Canada	C	COUNTRIES
8	What animal did Anthony Hopkins fight in Prisoners of the Wild?	with a bear	with a cougar	with wolverines	with a coyote	A	MOVIE
9	Charlie Horvath was the singer of which legendary band?	Coral	Generate	Omega	Pyramid	B	MUSIC
10	What is the title of Ingmar Bergman's classic film? "The seventh..."	cross	woman	seal	knight	C	MOVIE
11	Which animal makes trips similar to the mole?	mongoose	earth dog	krill	shrew	B	BIOLOGY
12	What architectural monuments are there in Zsurko and Nyírbator?	Gothic church ruin	Land castle from the conquest period	boat-shaped headstock	wooden bell tower	D	HUNGARY
1	What is the summary name for pictures depicting fruits and flowers?	flora painting	photo	still life	hush sketch	C	FINE ARTS
2	What invention is attributed to Samuel Colt?	a rifle with a scope	a cannon	revolver	a hunting knife	C	TECHNIQUE
3	What is the name of the little boy in Winnie the Pooh?	Oliver Twist	Robert Gida	Peter Pan	Tom Sawyer	B	LITERATURE
4	Who was the captain of Kszeg's castle defenders?	Miklos Jurisics	Gergely Bornemisssa	Pal Kinizzi	Gyorgy Klapka	A	HISTORY
5	Which theater is the director of Gyula Bodrogi?	Microscope Stage	Comedy	Fun Stage	Operetta Theater	C	THEATER
6	Who designed the steamer Clermont launched in 1807?	George Stephenson	Robert Fulton	Oszkar Asboth	James Watt	B	TECHNIQUE
7	Which is the smallest country in the world?	Monaco	Vatican	San Marino	Singapore	B	COUNTRIES
8	In which present-day area did the Dacians live in ancient times?	in Tuscany	In Egypt	in Transylvania	in Greece	C	HISTORY
9	From which card game did bridge evolve?	rummy	whist	poker	squeals	B	GAME
1	Where, according to the saying, does one who stumbles look for lumps?	on snow	poop	kiss	sorrel	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following words represents the stock market?	hall	plaza	stock exchange	atrium	C	GENERAL
3	What do they do with the dodoll?	they play music on it	plowed up	they eat it	they shoot him	C	LANGUAGE
4	Whose flags had the words "pro libertate" on them?	Miklos Zrínyi	II. Ferenc Rokoczi	Lajos Kossuth	Antal Nagy Budai	B	HISTORY
5	Which bird does the statement literally apply to? "Drinks like a bitch."	to the ostrich	the flamingo clock	to the pelican	on the stork	C	BIOLOGY
6	Who was the Nyíregyhaza theater named after?	Ferenc Kolcsey	Ferenc Mora	Zsigmond Moricz	Soldier Jozsef	C	THEATER
7	In which county is Hollok located?	Fierce	Komarom-Esztergom	Nograd	Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which of the following is added to the broth of poached eggs?	oil	vinegar	sugar	bay leaf	B	KITCHEN
1	What runway do planes take off from?	finisher	runway	outgoing	artificial ice	B	TECHNIQUE
2	What tree did Adam and Eve cover themselves with in Paradise?	apple tree	fig tree	pear tree	Oak tree	B	RELIGION
3	Which chemical element name indicates a type of zinc?	manganese	iron	zinc	coal	D	BIOLOGY
4	What is the name of the US Department of War building?	Capitol	Pentagon	Metropolitan	White House	B	GENERAL
5	What does ubering mean in the card?	division	uppercut	drag	counting	B	GAME
6	According to the Bible, who did the Lord appoint to deliver the people of Israel from Egyptian captivity?	Abraham	David	Moses	Jesus	C	RELIGION
7	What was the maiden name of the famous Hungarian actress Deryne?	Julia Vojda	Roza of Laborfalvi	Julia Szendrey	Roza Szeppataki	D	THEATER
8	Who composed the music for the Brandenburg Races?	Georg Friedrich Handel	Johann Sebastian Bach	Antonio Vivaldi	Georg Philipp Telemann	B	OPERA
9	How do the heroes of Night on Earth travel around the world?	by tram	on the train	by taxi	on the subway	C	MOVIE
10	Why is the pub in Petfi's poem kurta?	very small	it is open in the evenings	it is open from autumn to spring	it is on the border of the village	C	LITERATURE
1	Whose brass cannon is flourishing according to the folk song?	Sandor Rozsa	Vak Bottya	Bem dad	aron Gabor	D	LITERATURE
2	What do you call the role of the innocent young girl in a play?	buff	comedy	ingenue	femme fatale	C	THEATER
3	What can we choose from in a library?	perfumes	things to read	clothes	children's toys	B	LANGUAGE
4	What is trim?	clip holding clothes together	old passport	cord decorating a dress	high boots	C	LANGUAGE
5	In which sport did Henrietta onodi win a gold medal at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics?	in swimming	in a kayak-canoe	in fencing	in gymnastics	D	SPORTS
6	In which Hungarian city is the Rippl-Ronai Museum located?	Zalaegerszeg	Kaposvar	Pecs	Szeged	B	HUNGARY
7	Who was the first Secretary General of the United Nations?	U Thant	Trygve Lie	Dag Hammarskjold	Perez de Cuellar	B	HISTORY
8	What saved the lives of the defenders of the Capitol in 387 when the Gauls attacked?	torrential rain	the cackling of the sacred geese	minor earthquake	a returning legion	B	HISTORY
1	By which part of the body is the deceived person led?	by the ear	by the nose	by the little finger	by the hair	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of drinks are spritzes made of?	wine and soda	rum and coke	vodka and orange	beer and brandy	A	KITCHEN
3	Who among the following wears a space suit?	I'm looking forward to it	divers	hang gliders	rock climbers	B	GENERAL
4	In which sport do the competitors fight each other in mouth guards and head guards?	wrestling	fencing	judo	boxing	D	SPORTS
5	In which group of signs does KRESZ classify the "Avoid direction" sign?	danger signal	prohibited	giving instructions	giving information	C	GENERAL
6	Who played the female lead in the 1964 film version of the musical My Fair Lady?	Barbara Streisand	Liza Minnelli	Audrey Hepburn	Shirley MacLaine	C	MOVIE
7	Who was the childhood tutor of Mor Perczel, the general of the War of Independence?	Orlai Petrich Soma	Ferenc Erkel	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Lajos Kossuth	C	HISTORY
8	Which part of the beef is the intestine?	the kidney steak	the high back	the white steak	the round scarf	A	KITCHEN
9	Which country is closest to the South Pole?	Republic of South Africa	Chile	Argentina	New Zealand	B	GEOGRAPHY
10	What was the title of Madonna's first album?	Like a Virgin	True Blue	Madonna	You Can Dance	C	MUSIC
11	What is the name of Tatjana's brother in Anyegin?	Irina	Masha	Olga	Natasha	C	LITERATURE
12	The Munkacsy Museum is a landmark of which Hungarian city?	Szeged	Sopron	Bekescsaba	Veszprem	C	HUNGARY
1	What "path" can we see in the starry sky?	milk	coffee	Skin	water	A	GENERAL
2	Who is in the title of the Golden Ballad?	Courage mom	Ms Agnes	Mari Toth	Aunt Kato	B	LITERATURE
3	What is the seat of Tolna county?	Trouble	Kaposvar	Paks	Szekszard	D	GEOGRAPHY
4	Who is the five-time Olympic champion swimmer who became known as Tarzan?	Mark Spitz	Matt Biondi	Mike Burton	Johnny Weissmuller	D	SPORTS
5	Which famous romantic movie does Ryan O'Neal star in?	Love Story	Far from Africa	Vacation in Rome	A man and a woman	A	MOVIE
6	To whom did Saint Stephen write his admonitions?	to his nephew	to his son	his Spaniards	For Koppany	B	HISTORY
7	Whose stage plays did Kurt Weill regularly compose music for?	Eugene Ionesco	Samuel Beckett	Konstantin Stanislavsky	Bertolt Brecht	D	OPERA
8	In which European city is Wawel located?	in Berlin	in Krakow	in Prague	in Bratislava	B	COUNTRIES
1	What is the name of the chocolate-addicted, chubby bird known from the fairy tale?	Geza Gombolyag	Glucose Atanaz	odon Gomboc	Artur Gomboc	D	LITERATURE
2	What does an outlier do?	he does garden work	plays a musical instrument	awkwardly tense	he plays sports outdoors	B	LANGUAGE
3	What kind of art is Ivan Marko a representative of?	folk singer	pianist	ballet dancer	puppeteer	C	ART
4	To whom do we attribute the saying? "I am the state."	Franz Joseph	XIV. Louis	Napoleon	Cromwell	B	HISTORY
5	Diamond is a crystallized version of which chemical element?	ratio	iron	coal	phosphorus	C	SCIENCE
6	Who was the founder of the Jesuit order?	Saint Francis of Assisi	Ferenc Xavier	Saint Ignatius of Loyola	Saint Thomas Aquinas	C	RELIGION
7	Old Trafford is the famous ground of which football club?	Chelsea	Liverpool	Manchester United	Nottingham Forest	C	SPORTS
8	In which country can they vote for Likud?	in Cyprus	in the Republic of South Africa	in Israel	in New Zealand	C	COUNTRIES
9	Which of the following is not a white grape variety?	girl	sprinkler	riesling sylvan	blue collared	B	KITCHEN
10	With which painting did Mihaly Munkacsy win a gold medal in Paris in 1870?	Tear makers	Yawning butler	House of Mourning	Night vagabonds	C	FINE ARTS
11	Which of the following female names was not in the title of a Fassbinder film?	Petra von Kant	Katharina Blum	Effi Briest	Veronika Voss	B	MOVIE
1	What do you call a member of a series that stands out in some way in puzzles?	chicken egg	sparrow egg	cuckoo egg	swallow's egg	C	GENERAL
2	What lady's name does Laszlo Aradszky say goodbye to in his well-known hit: "Isten veled dese..."?	Little Red	Irene	My Zsuzsika	My gizik	A	MUSIC
3	How many points can the scoring judges give in figure skating?	10	7	6	5	C	SPORTS
1	What kind of "ear" can a book have?	friend	rabbit	donkey	mouse	C	GENERAL
2	What is worth its weight in gold, according to the saying?	December frost	May rain	July heat wave	September breeze	B	LANGUAGE
3	What do you call an unacceptable serve in tennis?	King	lower	ace	upper	C	GAME
4	What is gersli?	mistletoe	peeled barley pearls	kind of pork cheese	Paloc master knitter	B	LANGUAGE
5	What language was the Koran written in?	Latin	Arabic	Hindi	Hebrew	B	RELIGION
6	Attila Jozsef did not attend the university of which city?	Paris	Heidelberg	Vienna	Szeged	B	LITERATURE
1	In which sport is a target photo used?	in chess	in figure skating	in tower jumping	flat running	D	SPORTS
2	Which animal is famous for occasionally burying its head in the sand?	Mallard	ostrich	egret	starling	B	BIOLOGY
3	Which of the following is also a clothing and food name?	dumps	tuber	suba	sobriquet	A	LANGUAGE
4	Why did Tennessee Williams write a play about a sweet bird?	the desire	the agent	the happiness	the youth	D	LITERATURE
5	Which fruit is the base of marzipan?	walnut	hazelnut	almond	sour cherry	C	KITCHEN
6	In which biblical character's dream does a ladder leading to heaven appear?	Isaac	Job	Jacob	Joseph	C	RELIGION
7	Who traveled on the Mayflower?	Magellan's ships	the first American settlers	the Onassis family	Captain Cook's sailors	B	HISTORY
8	Who wrote a ballet about Spartacus, the leader of the Roman slave revolt?	Stravinsky	On the way	Shostakovich	Prokofiev	B	ART
1	According to the saying, what is in the throat of someone who is distressed by crying?	noodles	his stature	pie	dumpling	D	GENERAL
2	In Zsigmond Moricz's poem, what did the two little oxen from Iciripicir get up to?	iciripiciri small poppy	iciripiciri small pumpkin	iciripiciri for small beer	iciripiciri for small cow	B	LITERATURE
3	Which of the following male animals can also be a type of beer?	Bull	drake	Capricorn	kan	C	LANGUAGE
4	How did Miklos Toldi show Palatine Laczfi the way to Buda?	with a pitchfork	with a heavy bar	with a sword	with a compass	B	LITERATURE
5	The landmark of which city is the "Blue Mosque"?	Damascus	Jerusalem	Istanbul	Mecca	C	COUNTRIES
6	Who among our Olympic champion athletes below did not win a gold medal in the hammer throw?	Balazs Kiss	Jozsef Csermak	Miklos Nemeth	Gyula Zsivotzky	C	SPORTS
1	What means of transport is typical for Venice, Italy?	rubber mattress	kayak	water bike	gondola	D	COUNTRIES
2	What is the name of Sherlock Holmes' constant companion?	dr. Doolittle	dr. Watson	dr. Bubo	dr. Albanian	B	LITERATURE
3	Who sang the hit "Rock around the clock"?	Elvis Presley	Bill Haley	Bob Dylan	Levente Szorenyi	B	MUSIC
4	Which ancient city did the Greeks take with the help of a horse?	Babylon	Troy	Rome	Pergamon	B	HISTORY
5	Where is the beret worn?	arm	on foot	in the neck	on the head	D	GENERAL
6	Which play did the National Theater play on March 15, 1848?	The Tragedy of Man	Sorry, sorry	The partisans	Csongor and Tunde	B	THEATER
7	What is the name of Anna Karenina's seducer?	Lensky	Oblomov	Bezuhov	Vronsky	D	LITERATURE
8	Which planet was researched by the American Viking spacecraft?	Uranus	Jupiter	Mars	Venus	C	SCIENCE
1	What pedestrian cuckoo was in the title of the cartoon?	marathon	stirrup runner	fast-paced	supersonic	B	MOVIE
2	What is the proverbial curse of a bad neighborhood?	Tatar	Turkish	labanc	kun	B	LANGUAGE
3	We II. Hungarian king Ulaszlo's popular name?	Laszlo the righteous	Laszlo Szep	Laszlo Bolcs	Laszlo Dobzse	D	HISTORY
4	Which country's crown colony is Gibraltar?	Spain	The Netherlands	Great Britain	Morocco	C	COUNTRIES
5	How many minutes in an hour?	30 minutes	15 minutes	60 minutes	45 p.c	B	LANGUAGE
6	Which of the following words describes sweet champagne?	gross	dry	sec	doux	D	KITCHEN
7	Who wrote the lyrics of the bordal performed by Petur ban in the Erkel opera?	Soldier Jozsef	Egressy Beni	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Jozsef Bajza	C	OPERA
8	Which of the following planets does not have a moon?	Mars	Mercury	Neptune	Pluto	B	SCIENCE
9	What kind of person is in the title of Musil's famous novel?	faceless	without a past	faithless	featureless	D	LITERATURE
10	What is one of the typical dishes of Japanese cuisine, tofu?	soy sauce	bamboo shoot	soy curd	long grain rice	C	KITCHEN
11	Which animal is not a marsupial?	opossum	couscous	pele	wombat	C	BIOLOGY
1	Whose hat does the rain fall on "ring"?	Lajos Kossuth	Palatine Jozsef	Franz Joseph	II. Joseph	A	LITERATURE
2	What purpose does the Louvre, the former palace of the French kings, currently serve?	hospital	museum	court	presidential residence	B	COUNTRIES
3	Which of the following is a pantyhose?	cattle lost in reeds	poisonous plant	the trouser legs are old fashioned	marsh rat	B	LANGUAGE
4	Who opened a dog store under Harap utca three according to the poem?	Dog-nosed Atanaz	Dog-eared Aladar	Balamber with a dog's heart	Dog-headed Clement	B	LITERATURE
5	What part of the beef is tripe stew made from?	from liver	from his kidneys	from his stomach	from his chest	C	KITCHEN
6	Which of the following countries is not a member of the European Union?	Switzerland	Austria	Finland	Luxembourg	A	COUNTRIES
7	Which great rock musician composed the music for The Lion King?	Rod Stewart	David Bowie	Stevie Wonder	Elton John	D	MOVIE
8	Who was not a member of the 1992 Barcelona Olympic gold medalist women's kayak foursome?	Erika Geczi	Rita Kban	Eva Donusz	Gypsy Kinga	A	SPORTS
1	What part of the toad is used to make food?	from the flesh of her breast	from his thigh	from the liver	from its web	B	KITCHEN
2	What is a troika?	Siberian dog breed	plucked instrument	triple horse tooth	Trojan kid	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which celestial body was explored by the Soviet Luna probes?	the day	Pluto	the Venus	the moon	D	SCIENCE
4	Which of the following is a computer operating system?	COS	ROM	DOS	RAM	C	GENERAL
5	Which world-famous guitarist-singer burst into rock music with the song "Hey Joe"?	Jimi Hendrix	Paul Simon	Roy Orbison	Eric Clapton	A	MUSIC
6	What name did Katalin Kanczler become known by?	Kati Kovacs	Zsuzsa Koncz	Katalin Karady	Soldier Clari	C	ART
7	Who was the national team captain of the Hungarian team at the 1986 World Cup in Mexico?	Kalman Meszoly	Jozsef Verebes	Jozsef Garami	Gyorgy Mezey	D	SPORTS
8	Which country's flag is solid green?	Lebanon	Libya	Liberia	Liechtenstein	B	COUNTRIES
1	What is the name of the fox in fairy tales?	from Lapland	sunny	cunning	from Sompoly	C	LITERATURE
2	Which celestial body causes the tidal phenomenon?	the moon	the Mars	the Jupiter	the Venus	A	SCIENCE
3	What document did Janos Brody sing about?	birth certificate	traffic permit	from an identity card	tax card	C	MUSIC
4	Where is the US's number one space flight control center?	in Washington	in Houston	in Boston	in Dallas	B	COUNTRIES
5	What is the name of the little girl in the fairy tale Oz, the wonder of wonders?	Tiffany	Dorothy	Susie	Bessie	B	LITERATURE
6	Which of the following is not the name of a geohistorical period?	Jurassic	Devon	Cambrian	cadmium	D	GEOGRAPHY
7	In which swimming did agnes Kovacs win a gold medal at the Sydney Olympics?	in freestyle swimming	backstroke	in breaststroke	in butterfly	C	SPORTS
8	Who is credited with publishing the Magna Charta Liberatum?	William the Conqueror	Nice Philip	Henry of Navarre	Landless John	D	HISTORY
9	Who wrote an oratorio about Saint Elizabeth?	JS Bach	Ferenc Liszt	Brahms	Trade	B	OPERA
10	What is the name of the spaceship's computer in the sci-fi The Eighth Passenger: Death?	Father	Maternal	Big Brother	Tin man	B	MOVIE
1	From which part of Adam's body did the Lord create Eve?	from his arm	from the navel	from your finger	from its side rib	D	RELIGION
2	Who or what are called Amazons?	a species of bat	the Brazilian natives	the warrior women	a kind of apple	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following is not a bird of prey?	blood clot	pantyhose	peregrine falcon	crow	D	BIOLOGY
4	In which city is the Empire State Building located?	Washington	new York	Los Angeles	Boston	B	COUNTRIES
5	Who set the National Anthem to music?	Ferenc Liszt	Zoltan Kodaly	Egressy Beni	Ferenc Erkel	D	OPERA
6	Which cards are given a substitute role in the canasta, similar to the joker?	the two	the aces	the red triplets	the checkers	A	GAME
7	Which is the only left tributary of the Danube in Hungary?	Tarna	For him	Ipoly	Sio	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	What was the nickname of William of Normandy, XI. century English king?	Lion hearted	Conqueror	Landless	Orange	B	HISTORY
9	Which is the correct way to write something about the hot water tap?	hot water tap	hot water tap	hot water tap	hot water tap	B	LANGUAGE
10	What does someone who studies Mannerism do?	with a painting technique	financial transactions	with philosophy	with an art style	D	LANGUAGE
1	What do you call a naughty, restless child?	moth	I'm sorry	tadpole	cheese rat	D	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of jug is the jug depicting the folk male figure?	Miska	Laci	Feri	It's over	A	GENERAL
3	Who was the very first president of the United States?	Roosevelt	Jefferson	Washington	Franklin	C	HISTORY
4	Sergei Eisenstein made his classic film about the uprising of the sailors of which ship?	Aurora Cruiser	Nimitz cruiser	Patyomkin is armored	Leningrad armored	C	MOVIE
5	Through which nation did the habit of drinking coffee spread in Hungary?	Tatar	kun	Turkish	Polish	C	HISTORY
6	Where is Shakespeare's play Hamlet set?	in Helsinki	in Helsingfors	in Helsingor	in Helsingborg	C	LITERATURE
1	Who had an adventure with forty robbers in the well-known tale?	For Lenci baby	Gul for baby	Bobe for baby	For baby Ali	D	LITERATURE
2	What material is the veneer sheet made of?	made of glass	made of wood	of iron	made of cotton	B	TECHNIQUE
3	Who was the father of King Matthias?	Ulrik Cillei	Mihaly Szilagyi	Janos Hunyadi	Laszlo Hunyadi	C	HISTORY
4	Who did Romy Schneider play in the movie Sissi?	Maria Lujza	Queen Elizabeth	Maria Theresa	Empress Catherine the Great	B	MOVIE
5	Where will the 2004 Olympics be held?	Peking	Madrid	Munich	Athens	D	SPORTS
6	In which opera does the "Gypsy Choir" sound?	Verdi: The Troubadour	Bizet: Carmen	Verdi: Traviata	Verdi: The Masquerade Ball	A	OPERA
1	What falls from the tree according to the well-known Hungarian folk song?	plum	melon	sausage	frog	A	LITERATURE
2	What kind of food is the kugler in Jozsef Attila's poem?	goose leg	sweetness	sauce	soup	B	LITERATURE
3	What kind of "sailor" is baron Miklos Wesselenyi called?	Danube	flood	from Trieste	maritime	B	HISTORY
4	What is the title of the film comedy starring Klari Tolnay: "A kiss..."	and a slap	the heaven	but in silence	and nothing else	D	MOVIE
5	In which city is the Christian Museum?	Szekesfehervar	Visegrad	Esztergom	Pecs	C	HUNGARY
6	Olof Palme, the victim of the assassination, was the prime minister of which country?	Turkey	Sweden	Norway	Denmark	B	HISTORY
7	Who is Tamas Cseh's permanent co-author and lyricist?	John Brody	Geza Beremenyi	Gyorgy Spiro	Anna Adamis	B	MUSIC
8	Where did the peasant uprising led by Antal Budai Nagy break out?	in Buda	In Bekes	in Transylvania	in Western Transdanubia	C	HISTORY
9	What is the connection between Alfred Hajos and the Margitsziget sports pool building named after him?	he prepared for the Olympics here	he designed it	he swam a world record here	he was a coach here	B	GENERAL
1	What do you call a spouse who is left alone for a short time?	hay hermitage	trial ascetic	straw widow	post-teen	C	LANGUAGE
2	What does a fisherman do when he lures fish by throwing food into the water?	bet	satiety	fatten	cuts in	A	GENERAL
3	Buttermilk is a byproduct of what?	wine pressing	butter making	brewing	paper production	B	TECHNIQUE
4	In which area of literature is Stephen King famous?	children's poems	horror books	royal dramas	travel descriptions	B	LITERATURE
5	What does he do who falsifies reality and obscures something?	it hides	cover up	cover up	shuts down	C	LANGUAGE
6	Where did the Lord send Jonah to preach against the sinful city?	to Nineveh	To Sodom	to Jericho	to Canaan	A	RELIGION
7	Which country's coat of arms is the kiwi rat?	New Zealand	Colombia	Kuwait	Tanzania	A	COUNTRIES
1	What was Ern Teknc's occupation in the cartoon series "Please the following"	messenger	beak master	master of mechanics	Uhuologist	A	MOVIE
2	What is the pattern of the "bean scarf"?	striped	mottled	checkered	floral	B	GENERAL
3	With which song did the band Illes say goodbye to a European city?	Auf Wiedersehen, Berlin!	Arrivederci, Roma!	Goodbye, London!	Goodbye, Budapest!	C	MUSIC
4	Where is anyone visiting his alma mater?	in his previous apartment	at his former school	in an orchard	in the parents' house	B	LANGUAGE
5	Who did Petfi write about? "You burned him on a glowing iron throne, but the fire did not burn his spirit."	St. Johanna	Giordano Bruno	Saint Ignatius of Loyola	Dozsa Gyorgy	D	LITERATURE
6	The skin is the tissue of which human organ?	the language	the bed	the wine	the ear	C	BIOLOGY
7	Which of the following "corpora" do lawyers use?	corpus juris	corpus Domini	corpus Iuteum	corpus vitreum	A	LANGUAGE
8	Which biblical person is famous for nearly 100 psalms?	Samuel	David	Isaac	Elijah	B	RELIGION
9	Who or what was the "pink panther" in the film comedy of the same name?	supervisor's screen name	a diamond	a dancer's cat	the name of the criminal	B	MOVIE
1	What do we call the moment in table tennis when the ball hits the top edge of the table?	noodles	his stature	flap	it's slippery	D	SPORTS
2	Which part of the body is named on the inside of the book cover?	nose	ear	sole	well	B	GENERAL
1	Which animal is said to be rare?	the spotted tiger	the bloodthirsty slug	the white raven	the talking parrot	C	LANGUAGE
2	Where was the wall, a symbol of the Cold War, built in 1961?	in Moscow	in Berlin	in Washington	in Beijing	B	HISTORY
3	Which literary figure fought a windmill battle?	Pal Kinizzi	Tristan	Don Quixote	Miklos Toldi	C	LITERATURE
4	A card game was named after which former colony?	Singapore	Macau	Taiwan	Hong Kong	B	GAME
5	What is the waste of the osci?	paper production	threshed grain	skim milk	furniture production	B	TECHNIQUE
6	Who dressed up as a woman in the Hungarian film comedy A skirt, a pair of trousers?	Bilicsi Tivadar	Gyula Kabos	Latabar Kalman	Robert Koltai	C	MOVIE
7	Where did he die in the XVII. century poet-general, Miklos Zrínyi?	on the battlefield	on a hunt	in prison	in exile	B	HISTORY
8	With which neighboring country do we have the longest common border?	Slovakia	Croatia	Romania	Yugoslavia	A	GEOGRAPHY
9	What is the SI unit of electrical conductivity?	farad	Siemens	henry	coulomb	B	SCIENCE
1	According to the note, "where was I born"?	in a rose bush	in the parental home	on the river bank	on the soccer field	A	LITERATURE
2	What kind of food is levencs?	kind of pasta	kind of cheese	pickles	fish food	A	KITCHEN
3	What merchant did Shakespeare write a play about?	Istanbul bazaar	Venetian squid	Genoese courier	London town	B	LITERATURE
4	How did someone who bought on account pay?	in cash	got a loan	in currency	by exchanging goods	B	GENERAL
5	What is a giant puffer?	a species of wasp	a species of frog	a species of jellyfish	a species of mushroom	D	BIOLOGY
6	Who played the role of Jumurdsak in the film version of the Egri stars?	Ivan Darvas	Gyorgy Bardy	Imre Sinkovits	Major Tamas	B	MOVIE
7	What position did Moric Benyovszky hold on the island of Madagascar?	chess	sultan	King	sheriff	C	HISTORY
8	Who decides on the suspension of parliamentary immunity?	the president of the republic	the National Assembly	the prime minister	the Ministry of Justice	B	HISTORY
9	What was the original occupation of the evangelist Matthew?	customs collector	fisherman	teacher	carpenter	A	RELIGION
10	"Orphan boy" was a big hit of which Hungarian singer in the 70s?	Beata Karda	Kati Kovacs	Zsuzsa Cserhati	Judit Szucs	C	MUSIC
11	Which country do the Galapagos Islands belong to?	Ecuador	Chile	Argentina	Colombia	A	GEOGRAPHY
1	How does a cold or scared person shiver according to the saying?	like the poplar leaf	like the Miskolc duck	like catfish whiskers	like Marci fiercely	A	LANGUAGE
2	What extraordinary piece of clothing is in the title of one of Mikszath's works?	miraculous suba	talking robe	singing filter	stubborn bitch	B	LITERATURE
3	What flower did Herve write an operetta about?	Snow flower	Nebancs flower	Yew flower	Mold flower	B	OPERA
4	From which English city did the career of the Beatles start?	Liverpool	London	Birmingham	Manchester	A	MUSIC
5	What was the first Concorde passenger plane?	French-German	French-English	American-French	American-English	B	TECHNIQUE
6	In old texts, we often come across the expression "the motherland of the earth". What does neuter mean?	farm officer	soil loosening beetle	guardian spirit	a landless serf	C	LANGUAGE
7	What is the title of the play by Levente Szorenyi and Janos Brody presented in 2000?	Mary's country	Fly, free bird!	With you, sir!	Kalman, the bookkeeper	C	MUSIC
1	What did Bela Bartok make a dance play about a prince out of?	woven from silk	folded from paper	carved from wood	molded from plastic	C	OPERA
2	Which plant is grown for its inedible leaves?	spinach	on tennis courts	sorrel	salad	B	BIOLOGY
3	Whose leader was the prince Attila, called the whip of God?	Gauls	Thracians	Hun	Italians	C	HISTORY
4	Which country is not a member of the Benelux countries?	Belgium	The Netherlands	Luxembourg	Denmark	D	COUNTRIES
5	How many blood types can a person's blood be classified into?	2	4	6	8	B	BIOLOGY
6	On whose orders were the child murders in Bethlehem committed?	A foodie	Herod	Pilate	Antipatros	B	RELIGION
7	Where was the battle known as the Battle of the Nations fought?	in Varna	at Waterloo	At Philippi's	At Leipzig	D	HISTORY
8	What does the term: sub rosa mean?	in secret	beyond the garden, in the wider world	sees the world in pink	in the language of flowers	A	LANGUAGE
9	Who starred in Stanley Kubrick's The Shining?	Anthony Hopkins	Jack Nicholson	Anthony Perkins	Al Pacino	B	MOVIE
1	Who is the third protagonist of the classic western? "The good, the bad and..."	the party	the bamba	the ugly	the angel	C	MOVIE
2	Which part of the body is treated during a pedicure?	the hand	the face	the neck	her leg	D	GENERAL
3	What was born once upon a time in Irkam according to Zoltan Zelk's poem?	scribble	my toad	paca	ink blot	B	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following is the name of an existing aquatic animal?	pufferfish	crab	bag snake	black-headed gull	B	BIOLOGY
5	What was the name of the "miracle drug" sought by the alchemists?	dust of the wise	Sorcerer's Stone	drink of the wise	fire of the wise	B	GENERAL
6	Which of the following is called a vinko in the vernacular?	the horse thief	sour wine	the abundant harvest	the day laborer	B	LANGUAGE
7	What color gemstone is malachite?	purple	yellow	blue	green	D	GENERAL
8	Which is the longest river in Hungary?	For him	Tisza	Danube	Drava	B	GEOGRAPHY
9	Who was the father of St. Margaret of arpad-haza?	St. Stephen	ARC. Bela	II. Andrew	Saint Laszlo	B	HISTORY
1	Who sticks their nose in everything?	who is a boxer	who is short-sighted	who had fun	who has a cot	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is baking yeast used for?	chicken leg	bread	straw potatoes	predatory meat	B	KITCHEN
3	What is produced from the indigo bush?	textile	glue	perfume	paint	D	GENERAL
4	How many "ruffles are there in my skirt" according to the folk song?	7	13	20	33	B	LITERATURE
5	What do you call the large, round windows on the facades of Gothic cathedrals?	sunroof	halo window	rose window	moon window	C	ARCHITECTURE
6	Which of our writers held the position of minister of religion and public education in the Batthyany government?	Mor Jokai	Zsigmond Hard	Pal Gyulai	Jozsef Eotvos	D	HISTORY
7	Where did Napoleon Bonaparte die?	in Corsica	on the island of Elba	in Mallorca	on the island of Saint Helena	D	HISTORY
8	Who was the president of the Chinese Communist Party in World War II? after WWII?	Chiang Kai-shek	Mao Zedong	Deng Xiaoping	Chao Zeyang	B	HISTORY
9	What was the Latin name of the Roman province in present-day Portugal?	Lutecia	Caledonia	Lusitania	Hebrides	C	HISTORY
1	What is the title of the blockbuster movie of the disco era? "Saturday night..."	freak	fever	dance	wedding	B	MOVIE
2	What did our ancestors do with the musket?	pinned to their hats	they drank it	they shot him	they stabbed him	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following plants is not a conifer?	yew tree	juniper	dwarf pine	maple	D	BIOLOGY
4	Whose hanging garden is one of the seven ancient wonders?	Artemis	Semiramis	Sisyphus	For Winter Makhos	B	HISTORY
5	Who does Bank ban kill in the drama?	the king	the queen	Petur hurts	Tiborcot	B	LITERATURE
6	The Adige, Arno and Piave are rivers of which country?	Italy	Argentina	Switzerland	Spain	A	GEOGRAPHY
7	Which well-known musician is the musical director of the Vígszínhaz?	Levente Szorenyi	Gabor Presser	Laszlo Benk	Laszlo Des	B	THEATER
8	What animal did the Italian doctor Luigi Galvani conduct electrical experiments with?	with a frog	with mouse	with a monkey	with a dog	A	SCIENCE
9	Which dynasty was the last tsar with a tragic fate, II. Michael?	Alexandrov	Godunov	Romanov	Ivanov	C	HISTORY
10	The production of which drink has been banned in most European countries due to its harmful effects on health?	rum	raki	absinthe	tequila	C	GENERAL
11	Who was Kalman Kolcsey, for whom Ferenc Kolcsey wrote Parainesis?	son	nephew	her little brother	namesake	B	LITERATURE
1	What "queen" did Imre Kalman write an operetta about?	ball	kissable	tavern	disco	C	OPERA
2	In which country was Armand Peugeot a pioneer in car production?	France	Switzerland	Sweden	Germany	A	COUNTRIES
3	Which of the following can be sujetas?	sublot	went	degree	alcove	B	LANGUAGE
4	Complete the title of the well-known Repin painting! "… on the Volga"	pirate ships	tugboats	meeting of trains	modern dams	B	FINE ARTS
5	Who is the president of the Palestine Liberation Organization?	Hosni Mubarak	Yasser Arafat	Hassan Nasrallah	Saddam Hussein	B	HISTORY
6	Which city is not located in Bekes county?	Gyula	Deer	You are cornering	Trouble	D	GEOGRAPHY
1	How do we say otherwise if someone was not very affected by an event?	he didn't take it on his back	he did not take it into his hands	he didn't take it to heart	he didn't take it in his mouth	C	LANGUAGE
2	What bird is in Milne's Winnie the Pooh?	Cuckoo	Owl	Coots	Vulture	B	LITERATURE
3	What is a nebulizer?	cemetery employee	two millstones	a suction structure	a nozzle car part	D	LANGUAGE
4	Which type of ape is not anthropoid?	gorilla	orangutan	chimpanzee	macaque	D	BIOLOGY
5	Who among the following spent decades in exile in Rodost?	Napoleon	Lajos Kossuth	Mikes Clement	Ovid	C	HISTORY
6	What is the name of the president of the French Republic who led his country into the 2000s?	Jacques Chirac	Francois Mitterrand	Michel Rocard	Pierre Mauroy	A	HISTORY
7	Whose fictional hero is Father Goriot?	Balzac	Zola	Gorky	Chekhov	A	LITERATURE
8	Which country's national football team did not make it to the top four at the 2000 European Championship?	The Netherlands	Portugal	Italy	Spain	D	SPORTS
9	Who was the Austrian ruler in 1703, when the Rakoczi War of Independence broke out?	Maria Theresa	II. Joseph	ARC. Charles	Lipot I	D	HISTORY
1	What is the name of the cable car with free-hanging seats?	float	teetering	seesaw	flag	C	GENERAL
2	Where do all roads lead as the saying goes?	to Rome	To Moscow	to Washington	to Tibet	A	LANGUAGE
3	What kind of fish is used to prepare the dish named after the grids?	pike	carp	sterlet	catfish	B	KITCHEN
4	Who did Anton Chekhov write a play about?	About master builder Soiness	About Uncle Vanya	About King Ubu	About King Lear	B	LITERATURE
5	What country was Marie Curie from?	From Poland	from France	From the Czech Republic	from Russia	A	SCIENCE
6	Which animal can be the prefix of finch?	antelope	zebra	tiger	drake	B	BIOLOGY
7	What do we call the particles of light energy?	to a proton	to a photon	to ion	for an electron	B	SCIENCE
8	What are the names of medieval Icelandic prose narratives?	torvald	Nibelungen	saga	Oberon	C	LITERATURE
1	Which of the following is the name of a sweet?	bye-bye	bonbons	dum dum	pompon	B	KITCHEN
2	What is obsidian?	pornographic film	astronomical telescope	hard volcanic rock	inedible midday fruit	C	LANGUAGE
1	What is the name of "Színpad" for a theater in Budapest?	Horoscope	Microscope	Stereoscope	Monoscope	B	THEATER
2	What are North American wild horses called?	gnu	Okapi	mustang	impala	C	BIOLOGY
3	What led the Eastern wise men to the baby Jesus?	an archangel	a star	a pigeon	a tongue of flame	B	RELIGION
4	What kind of animal is the guzu?	arthropod	sea lizard	field rodent	bee	C	BIOLOGY
5	According to the well-known poem, whose grandson is Endre Ady?	Koppany leader	Prince arpad	Dozsa Gyorgy	Tamas Eze	C	LITERATURE
6	Whose coffin is floating, according to the proverb?	Damocles	Mohammed	Saint Laszlo	Christ	B	LANGUAGE
7	In which team did the famous basketball player Michael Jordan end his fantastic career?	Chicago Bulls	Utah Jazz	Los Angeles Lakers	New York Knicks	A	SPORTS
8	To whom did Robert Redford make an "unfair offer" in the film of the same name?	Julia Roberts	Demi Moore	Sharon Stone	Dennis Richards	B	MOVIE
9	For what purpose did an Indian ruler build the Taj Mahal in the 17th century?	for residential purposes	as a memorial to his wife	a religious shrine	a military fortress	B	HISTORY
10	Who was the failed assassination attempt against in Brighton in 1984?	Edward Heath	Harold Wilson	Queen Elisabeth	Margaret Thatcher	D	HISTORY
11	Who found the missing scientist Livingstone in Africa?	Peary	Amundsen	Stanley	Cook	C	SCIENCE
12	Who wrote variations on a Purcell theme?	Brahms	Britain	Mahler	Stravinsky	B	OPERA
13	Who among the following was a member of the first triumvirate?	Augustus	Romulus	Vespasian	Crassus	D	HISTORY
14	Who designed the Arany Bika Szallo building in Debrecen?	Jozsef Hild	Alfred Hajos	Ybl Miklos	Mihaly Pollack	B	ARCHITECTURE
15	Who played Lucifer in the Tragedy of Man premiere?	Gyula Cstoros	Laszlo Gyenes	Imre Pethes	arpad odry	B	THEATER
1	What weeks is the period after the wedding usually called?	syrupy	sugary	honey	glazed	C	GENERAL
2	Who was the first Hungarian king?	Saint Laszlo	Matthias	St. Stephen	Robert Karoly	C	HISTORY
3	What is a snap mask?	whip	Chinese firecracker	poisonous weed	striking answer	C	LANGUAGE
4	Where is the Wailing Wall?	In Jerusalem	in Bethlehem	In Nazareth	in Tel Aviv	A	RELIGION
5	Which magical animal's name in a fairy tale is the same as the name of the shamans of the ancient Hungarian religious world?	griffin	basilisk	it's delicious	centaur	C	RELIGION
6	Which ship's crew mutinied under Fletcher Christian?	Patyomkin	Nimitz	Bounty	Lustinania	C	LITERATURE
7	What will be the end result if an artist makes a hermaphrodite?	folk wall protector	abstract oil painting	small etching	metal reliquary	D	FINE ARTS
8	Norodom Sihanouk was president of which Asian country several times?	Malaysia	Cambodia	Vietnam	Indonesia	B	HISTORY
9	What is the name of the main character's palace in Orson Welles' classic film The Golden Man?	Gentlemen	Tartarus	Xanadu	Taj Mahal	C	MOVIE
10	Who wrote the symphony entitled "Maria Theresia"?	Beethoven	Schubert	Mozart	Haydn	D	OPERA
1	The siege tool used to breach the wall was named after which animal?	about the bull	about the ram	about the duvad	about the mule	B	LANGUAGE
2	Carry on the old fashioned way! "In the flesh..."	I'm barely alive	healthy soul	beautiful soul	the soul listens	B	LANGUAGE
3	What does a graffiti artist do?	etchings	metal sculptures	graffiti	oil paintings	C	FINE ARTS
4	Who is the Hungarian king who appears in Vorosmarty's poem Szep Ilonka?	Matthias	Zsigmond	Franz Joseph	Louis the Great	A	LITERATURE
5	In which Austrian city was Mozart born?	in Graz	in Linz	in Wienna	in Salzburg	D	OPERA
6	Which Formula 1 driver has won the most combined world championships?	Alain Prost	Juan Manuel Fangio	Jackie Stewart	Emerson Fittipaldi	B	SPORTS
7	Whose work did Gabor Body make his film Psyche based on?	Janos Pilinszky	Sandor Weores	Lrinc Szabo	Peter Esterhazy	B	MOVIE
8	What is the nationality of the famous science fiction writer Stanislaw Lem?	Russian	Polish	Ukrainian	Moldovan	B	LITERATURE
9	Who built mastabas?	the aztecs	the Egyptians	the Persians	the vikings	B	HISTORY
1	Which of the following is the name of a piece of clothing?	loincloth	loin-cloth	loincloth	groin extender	B	GENERAL
2	Which of the following foods cannot be made without an omelette?	onion	cheese	egg	cucumber	C	KITCHEN
3	Which planet is closest to the Sun?	Mercury	Venus	Earth	Mars	A	SCIENCE
4	Who was the most successful Hungarian amateur boxer?	Gyorgy Gedo	Tibor Strip	Istvan Kovacs	Laszlo Papp	D	SPORTS
5	How many points does the player with Black Jack have from the first two cards?	sixteen	twenty one	twenty	twenty two	B	GAME
6	Where is the geographical center of Hungary?	An antidote	A wasteland	Desert porridge	Desert customs	C	GEOGRAPHY
7	Who started the Lyon uprising of 1831?	miners	weavers	carpenters	stone carvers	B	HISTORY
8	Which of the following is not a comedy?	Mozart: The Marriage of Figaro	Rossini: The Barber of Seville	Verdi: Falstaff	Puccini: Bohemian Life	D	OPERA
9	What does the epithet Mahatma mean in Gandhi's name?	wise leader	great soul	the father of the people	gentle light	B	GENERAL
1	What is the name of an internationally famous Hungarian dish?	fat	canadian	goulash	shepherd	C	KITCHEN
2	What kind of dandelion is called baby chain grass?	beep	wander	bathrobe	slippers	C	BIOLOGY
3	Complete the title of the famous short story! "Mario and the ..."	magic mountain	wizard	selected	Buddenbrook House	B	LITERATURE
4	What was called a moving house in the old days?	telephone exchange	blue painting workshop	train station	the car engine	C	LANGUAGE
5	Who directed the 1997 movie Titanic?	James Cameron	Steven Spielberg	Ron Howard	Richard Donner	A	MOVIE
6	In which Erkel opera is "Palotas" performed?	He cornered her	Sorry, sorry	Dozsa Gyorgy	Laszlo Hunyadi	D	OPERA
7	What was the now obsolete meaning of the word "cattle" centuries ago?	fortune	family	clumsy rider	subordinate	A	LANGUAGE
8	What is the propagation speed of light in air, in a vacuum?	300,000 km/h	300,000 km/s	30,000 m/s	150,000 m/s	B	SCIENCE
9	Vilmos Varju excelled in which sport?	boxer	shot put	weight-lifting	wrestling	B	SPORTS
10	What kind of animal is a cassowary?	Australian reptile	feline	flightless bird	jellyfish	C	BIOLOGY
11	How many times must a Muslim walk around the Kaaba stone in Mecca?	three times	seven times	five times	ten times	B	RELIGION
12	What nationality was the composer Jean Sibelius?	German	Belgian	Finnish	Norwegian	C	OPERA
1	What or who "speaks again" according to the title of the classic western?	the winchester	the old sheriff	the six-shot	the little indian	C	MOVIE
2	What is the name of the famous building in Budapest: "Gul Baba..."	his turban	his tomb	his caftan	babble	B	HUNGARY
3	Who or what was the "smell" in the title of Al Pacino's famous film?	a rose	a woman	the money	the lion's den	B	MOVIE
4	Which watercraft played a role in the Bolshevik uprising in St. Petersburg in 1917?	the Patyomkin is armored	the Aurora Cruiser	the Lenin steamship	the torpedo destroyer Pravda	B	HISTORY
5	What is the SI unit of electrical resistance?	amperes	volt	ohm	coulomb	C	SCIENCE
6	After how many penalty points does a player score in water polo?	five	six	four	three	D	SPORTS
7	Which is not the title of a Moliere comedy?	A school for husbands	A school for women	A school for men	The doctor made a mistake	C	LITERATURE
8	Who wrote an oratorio about Judas Maccabeus?	Trade	JS Bach	Vivaldi	Haydn	A	OPERA
1	What is the popular nickname of London police officers?	jimmy	Jacky	bobby	stevie	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of community is featured in the novel A Pal street boys?	putty company	gypsum board	rifle company	protection association	A	LITERATURE
3	Where is the captain of a corvette in command?	on a submarine	on a ship	in a cricket team	in a cavalry army	B	LANGUAGE
4	What is the name of the Polish parliament?	I'm sorry	Knesset	skupstina	przemysl	A	LANGUAGE
5	Who can we meet if we are invited to the PEN Club evening?	with cartoonists	with writers	with painters	with bankers	B	LANGUAGE
6	Which ensemble won the grand prize of the 1968 Dance Song Festival?	Omega	Elijah	Hungary	Express	B	MUSIC
7	Where does the Koros flow into the Tisza?	in Korosladany	In Szeged	At Csongrad	At Szentes	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	Who played Batman's adversary in Batman and Robin?	Arnold Schwarzenegger	Sylvester Stallone	Jackie Chan	Jean-Claude van Damme	A	MOVIE
1	Which of the following is the name of a meat product?	duck milk	beef butter	pork cheese	horse tour	C	KITCHEN
2	Whose rescue is in the title of Steven Spielberg's film?	Major Stirlitz	Sergeant Pepper	Private Ryan	Marshal Kutuzov	C	MOVIE
3	Which of the following prefixes does not indicate a type of bean?	harmful	Shoot	chick	fire	C	BIOLOGY
4	Where was Ferenc Ferdinand shot in 1914?	in Marseille	in Sarajevo	in Wienna	in Munich	B	HISTORY
5	Who wrote a world-famous work about the portrait of Dorian Gray?	Oscar Wilde	Honore de Balzac	George Bernard Shaw	Edmond Rostand	A	LITERATURE
6	Which of the following spellings is incorrect?	five-week dose	three months delay	twenty-one days' journey	two stroke engine	D	LANGUAGE
7	Who is the composer of the opera "The Magical Hunter"?	Mozart	Bellini	Rossini	Weber	D	OPERA
8	Which is the highest capital in the world?	La Paz	Quito	Kathmandu	in Yerevan	A	COUNTRIES
9	What was the name of the Spartan king who defended the Thermopylae Strait against the Persians?	Miltiades	Menelaus	Laertes	Leonidas	D	HISTORY
1	What does someone who eats crackers fill their stomach with?	with scallops	with a reed warbler	with crappy sugar	with wild pear	D	KITCHEN
2	What is the old name of the rules?	regula	strigula	wick	fable	A	LANGUAGE
3	Where did Alexander the Great, the world conqueror, come from?	From Corsica	From Gaugamela	From Alexandria	From Macedonia	D	HISTORY
4	How did medieval Turks mock non-Muslims?	it sucks	gyuvecs	yaur	belt	C	LANGUAGE
5	Which of the following novels did Steinbeck write?	Far from Africa	East of Eden	North against South	Beijing autumn	B	LITERATURE
6	Where was Europe's first underground railway built?	Paris	London	Rome	Berlin	B	GENERAL
7	What kind of artist is Cavaradossi in the opera Tosca?	sculptor	painter	poet	singer	B	OPERA
1	According to tradition, whose day is April 1 in Hungary?	clowns	wine tastings	fools	nurses	C	GENERAL
2	How does the saying go? "More days than..."	payment	sausage	beach bass	lens	B	LANGUAGE
3	What does someone who travels on a cruiser do?	trains	sails	fly	ride	B	GENERAL
4	In which of the listed cities is the Citadel located?	in Esztergom	Szekesfehervarto	In Gyr	in Visegrad	D	HUNGARY
5	Which African country was the emperor between 1930 and 1974, that is Haile Selassie?	Sudan	Ethiopia	Congo	Nigeria	B	HISTORY
6	Andres Segovia was a virtuoso of which instrument?	guitar	trumpet	violin	harmonica	A	OPERA
7	In which month is the Hungarian Grand Prix held in the Formula 1 car race?	in June	in October	in August	in May	C	SPORTS
8	Where did men wear the klakk?	on their feet	in their necks	on their heads	on their hands	C	GENERAL
1	What "stem" is the name of a cake?	tree	main	ship	Mohican	A	KITCHEN
2	What kind of animal is on the pharmacy's company logo?	peacock	snake	dove	cat	B	GENERAL
3	What animal did our ancestors catch with the spleen?	bees	birds	butterflies	fish	B	GENERAL
4	Who discovered X-rays?	Henri Becquerel	Marie Curie-Sklodowska	Guglielmo Marconi	Conrad Roentgen	D	SCIENCE
5	What is the occupation of Eden Minarik, the main character of the film Football of Old Times?	shoe upper maker	ticket taker	ball picker	washing	D	MOVIE
6	What part of the plant is barka?	leaf bud	panicle	aerial root	crop	B	BIOLOGY
7	What is the nationality of the rock band AC/DC?	Australian	Canadian	English	of the United States	A	MUSIC
8	Which of the following substances is used to thicken food during fermentation?	with semolina	with egg yolk	with cornmeal	with egg whites	B	KITCHEN
9	Which is not the title of aron Tamasi's novel?	Abel in the country	Abel in abundance	Abel in the big city	Abel in America	C	LITERATURE
1	Who was the dwarf in the Disney cartoon Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs?	Candy	Undo	Bandy	Take a nap	D	MOVIE
2	Which male name is in the name of a pear variety?	Victor	It's over	William	Imre	C	BIOLOGY
3	What kind of person is Tímar Mihaly in the well-known novel?	amphibian	stone hearted	ratio	Sehonna bitang	C	LITERATURE
4	What does the silkworm caterpillar feed on?	with the bark of the china tree	with the tamarisk leaf	with water chestnuts	with the leaf of the white mulberry tree	D	BIOLOGY
5	Pege Aladar is a virtuoso of which instrument?	violin	piano	double bass	trumpet	C	OPERA
6	How many wives can a devout Muslim have?	one	two	three	four	D	RELIGION
7	Which English king appears in the story of Robin Hood?	Richard I	III. Richard	ARC. Henrik	VIII. Henrik	A	LITERATURE
8	Who did not appear in Gabor Koltay's musical film Istvan, a kiraly?	Dean Gyula Bill	Great Fero	Laszlo Foldes	Victor Mate	C	MUSIC
9	Another name for which metal is zinc?	zinc	you	silicon	chromium	A	SCIENCE
10	At which film festival is the Golden Leopard awarded?	in Locarno	in Leipzig	in Lubeck	in Mannheim	A	MOVIE
1	What is the name of a dish?	cymbalist	deep plate	copper plate	wooden plate	D	KITCHEN
2	Who are fighting each other in the work Szigeti vesedelem?	Hungarians and Germans	Greeks and Persians	Hungarians and Turks	Punic and Roman	C	LITERATURE
3	What is "being Burgundian" used for in agriculture?	for wine fermentation	for spraying	for drying	for fertilization	B	GENERAL
4	Which contributor to Heti hetes was a theater director?	Imre Bajor	Istvan Verebes	Janos Galvolgyi	Farkashazy Tivadar	B	THEATER
5	How many meters is the penalty kick thrown from in water polo?	eleven	four	seven	half court to empty net	B	SPORTS
6	Which of the following animals builds a castle for itself?	beaver	groundhog	voles	marten	A	BIOLOGY
7	Which is the correct spelling?	rare book collection	rare book collection	rare book collection	book rarities collection	C	LANGUAGE
8	Where does he walk who walks in a young, sparse forest?	in baggage claim	in bait	in racquetball	in an English garden	A	GENERAL
1	Complete the title of the Petfi work! "The locality..."	axe	his axe	degree	hammer	D	LITERATURE
2	Which is not the Hungarian name for the face of the French card deck?	jack	queen	donna	King	C	GAME
3	According to the note, which is the famous city that borders Tape?	Miskolc	Debrecen	Szeged	Pecs	C	GEOGRAPHY
4	Which type of owl was given the Latin name of the cartoon hero Dr. Bubo?	arctic owl	cookies	wow	tufted owl	C	BIOLOGY
5	What were Arabs called in the Middle Ages?	Sarmatians	Saracens	they fall	Berber	B	HISTORY
6	Which of our great rock musicians worked as a musical clown for a while?	Attila Pataky	Charlie Horvath	Ferenc Demjen	Tamas Somlo	D	MUSIC
7	Master Pangloss is tutored by which literary hero?	Rob Roy	Ivanhoe	Candide	Faust	C	LITERATURE
8	Where is the Neander Valley, which became famous for its findings in 1856?	in Spain	in Germany	in France	in Austria	B	COUNTRIES
9	Who played the main character, Janos Karpathy, in the 1966 film A Hungarian Nabob?	Imre Sinkovits	Ferenc Bessenyei	Zoltan Latinovits	Ivan Darvas	B	MOVIE
1	Complete the sentence. "He knows where to squeeze..."	time	the waist belt	the shoe	the iron fist	C	LANGUAGE
2	Twilight blindness is named after which animal?	fox	wolf	deer	panther	B	LANGUAGE
3	The epithet "wise" was attached to the name of which biblical ruler?	Solomon	David	Saul	Herod	A	RELIGION
4	Who did Elizabeth Taylor marry twice?	Eddie Fischer	Richard Burton	Laurence Olivier	Clark Gable	B	MOVIE
5	Which of the following royal houses did not have a ruler on the Hungarian throne?	Luxembourgish	Bourbon	Anjou	Jagiellonian	B	HISTORY
6	What kind of spirit is Armagnac?	strawberry brandy	nut liqueur	spirit of wine	wheat beer	C	KITCHEN
7	How long did Methuselah live?	1000	969	850	925	B	RELIGION
8	What did the word minister originally mean?	warlord	speaker	smallholder	servant	D	LANGUAGE
9	Which Verdi opera is set in Boston?	The masquerade ball	The power of doom	Ernani	Traviata	A	OPERA
1	Which of the following is the name of a bakery product?	chubby	puffy	small	bun	D	KITCHEN
2	Which of the following vehicles has its terminus at Varhegy in Buda?	gear	underground	glider	seesaw	C	GENERAL
3	Whose wife was Julia Szendrey?	Mor Jokai	Golden John	Sandor Petofi	Pal Vasvari	C	LITERATURE
4	Which card is in the title of a Pushkin work?	meeting ace	king of ash	queen of spades	damn jack	C	LITERATURE
5	What animal has scissors besides a crab?	to the seal	to the scorpion	to the jellyfish	to the carvally	B	BIOLOGY
6	Where is Umberto Eco's novel The Name of the Rose set?	in a rose garden	on an estate in England	in a monastery	on a train	C	LITERATURE
7	Who or what is startled by the lightning in Delacroix's painting?	a little boy	a deer	a maid	a horse	D	FINE ARTS
8	Mrs. Corazon Aquino was the president of which country?	Sri Lanka	Bangladesh	India	Philippines	D	HISTORY
9	During which Christian holiday does Mascagni's opera Peasant's Honor take place?	at Easter	at baptism	at Pentecost	at Christmas	A	OPERA
1	Which fruit doesn't fall far from the tree, according to the saying?	the William pear	the coconut	the Apple	the wormy cherry	C	LANGUAGE
2	What animal is not in Walt Disney's cartoon The Jungle Book?	python	black Panther	giraffe	monkey	C	MOVIE
3	According to Endre Ady's poem, who or what visited Paris yesterday?	Napoleon	the autumn	Leda's shadow	Saint Michael	B	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following cities is not a county seat?	Szekszard	Tatabanya	Esztergom	Salgotarjan	C	GEOGRAPHY
5	In the ulti, which card should the person who takes the "ulti" make the last hit with?	trump with seven	trump with ace	with a red king	with green bottom	A	GAME
6	Which band is featured in the Hungarian film Pirates?	Raptors	Bikini	Republic	Jazz+Az	D	MOVIE
7	What is the occupation of Tevje, the protagonist of Fiddler on the Roof?	tailor	butcher	milkman	currency exchange	C	OPERA
8	In which country is the Great Victoria Desert located?	USA	Australia	Canada	Republic of South Africa	B	GEOGRAPHY
1	According to the plans of Frigyes Schulek, what kind of "bastion" was built on Varhegy in Buda?	hunter	bowman	fisherman	birdwatcher	C	ARCHITECTURE
2	What or who is called amber?	wine-loving old man	runner plant	the wafer of the ice cream cone	chicken stew with wine	B	LANGUAGE
3	Tik is the vernacular name of which animal?	duck	goose	hen	peacock	C	LANGUAGE
4	Who among the following painters was German?	Turner	Goya	Gauguin	Rembrandt	D	FINE ARTS
5	What is the name of the witch in Vorosmarty's work, Csongor and Tunde?	Wart	Toad	Gland	Mine	C	LITERATURE
6	How do you make the speaker speak?	they hit him	they strum	with a rope	they blow it	D	OPERA
7	Which is the sport in which there was always a Hungarian Olympic champion for forty years from 1924?	kayaking	sword fighting	pentathlon	backstroke	B	SPORTS
8	What is the capital of Macedonia?	Sarajevo	Skopje	Pristina	Split	B	COUNTRIES
9	Where does Geza Ottlik's novel School on the Border take place?	in a prison	in a military school	in an Oxford college	at the Debrecen Lyceum	B	LITERATURE
10	Which of the following is not a carbon compound?	limestone	methane	formic acid	gypsum	D	SCIENCE
11	Which of the following actors was not one of the founders of the United Artists film studio?	Mary Pickford	Charlie Chaplin	Douglas Fairbanks	Gloria Swanson	D	MOVIE
12	Which operetta was Imre Kalman's last composition?	The violet of Montmartre	Countess Marica	Devil rider	Arizona Lady	D	OPERA
1	Which "doughnut" is the name of a cake?	officer	representative	warrior	exhausting	B	KITCHEN
2	Who was the mother of the Hungarian king Matyas Hunyadi?	Ilona Zrínyi	Erzsebet Szilagyi	Teresa of Brunswick	Gertrud of Merania	B	HISTORY
3	What animals does Miklos Toldi fight in the reeds?	with bears	with bulls	with wolves	with wild boars	C	LITERATURE
4	Who was the reserve astronaut of the Hungarian-Soviet space flight?	Attila Grandpierre	Bela Magyar	Ferenc Veres	Imre Toth	B	GENERAL
5	Who among the following was not the Secretary General of the United Nations?	Perez de Cuellar	Boutros Ghali	Olof Palme	U Thant	C	HISTORY
6	Which film's protagonist is Hungarian?	American beauty	A French woman	The Englishman is sick	Lawrence of Arabia	C	MOVIE
7	Who was the Beatles' first drummer?	Hello Sutcliffe	Ringo Starr	Richard Starkey	Pete Best	D	MUSIC
1	Which of the following is the name of a species of cultivated tobacco?	spade	scythe	hoe	big bell	C	BIOLOGY
2	What animal did Balaam, the Mesopotamian prophet, have?	camel	flea	his dog	for	D	RELIGION
3	Odysseus's village was used during the siege of which city?	Jericho	Syrakuza	Sparta	Troy	D	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following fruits grows on a palm tree?	banana	citron	date	fig	C	BIOLOGY
5	What is the name of an aid used in fishing?	knocking	flying	flashing light	bumpy	C	GENERAL
6	Where was the 2000 European Football Championship held?	in Norway and Sweden	in Portugal	Ireland	in the Netherlands and Belgium	D	SPORTS
7	Which ministerial portfolio did Ferenc Madl receive in 1993?	judicial	cultural and public education	financial	industrial and commercial	B	HISTORY
8	What does the Beaufort scale measure?	wind strength	earthquake	atomic radiation	temperature	A	SCIENCE
9	Who meet in Master MS's picture Visitatio?	Matthias and Beatrix	Mary and Elizabeth	Jesus and Mary Magdalene	II. Lajos and Janos Szapolyai	B	FINE ARTS
10	Boldogk castle can be seen in which of our mountains?	in Mecsek	in Bakony	in Cserhat	in the Zempleni Mountains	D	HUNGARY
11	Which of the following astronauts did not visit the moon?	David Scott	James Irwin	Eugene A. Cernan	James Arthur Lowell	D	SCIENCE
1	According to the saying, what goes away in contrast to writing?	the smell of ink	tendonitis	the word	the balloon	C	GENERAL
2	Which of the following was called a grocer?	short bubbling	wallet	panties	buggy boy	B	LANGUAGE
3	What was the name of the Roman colony on the site of today's Western Hungary?	Hunnia	Alba Hungary	Arcadia	Pannonia	D	HISTORY
4	What is the well-known abbreviation of the international system of units?	SKI	NM	ALSO	INS	A	SCIENCE
5	In which literary work is the quote? "Seriously mix the present with the far future..."	Word	Anthem	Hust	Thoughts in the library	C	LITERATURE
6	Who or what made up the supposedly invincible Armada?	French Legionnaires	Spanish warships	English knights	Roman legions	B	HISTORY
7	Which of the listed German cities is not located on the banks of the Elbe?	Hamburg	Wittenberg	Bremen	Dresden	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	A lack of which vitamin causes an increased tendency to bleed?	The vitamin	Vitamin K	Vitamin D	Vitamin B	B	BIOLOGY
10	The real name of the great French writer Stendhal is Marie-Henri Beyle. Where did you get your writer's pen name?	From one of Napoleon's horses	from his childhood nanny	from a legendary wizard	from a Prussian city	D	LITERATURE
1	What is the name of a lawsuit in a trivial matter?	cap fight	hen trial	ear mule debate	flea trap	B	GENERAL
2	Complete the sentence. "…, the caravan is moving."	the cat meows	the cricket chirps	the pig grunts	the dog is barking	D	LANGUAGE
3	What is the name of the silly dog who lives in the household with Garfield?	Crumbs	Ubul	Growling	Bodri	B	GENERAL
4	What was Poseidon the god of in Greek mythology?	blacksmithing	the sea	the wine	the wisdom	B	RELIGION
5	What was Gulliver's occupation in Swift's work?	ship captain	ship's cook	ship doctor	sailor	C	LITERATURE
6	In which opera is "Víragaria" performed?	Verdi: Aida	Puccini: Tosca	Gounod: Faust	Bizet: Carmen	D	OPERA
7	What was the first thing in the world that Louis Bleriot flew over in 1909?	the Atlantic Ocean	the Pacific Ocean	the Mediterranean Sea	the English Channel	D	GENERAL
8	Which monastic order owns the Pannonhalm Abbey?	Dominican	Benedictine	Paul	Franciscan	B	HUNGARY
9	Which legendary Native American chief is portrayed in the movie Buffalo Bill and the Indians?	Winnetou	Red Cloud	Sitting Bull	Osceola	C	MOVIE
10	Which of the following mythological figures is not female?	Eris	Demeter	Daphnis	Khrushchev	C	RELIGION
1	What do you say when you get fired up about something?	Monday	Tuesday	Wednesday	Thursday	D	LANGUAGE
2	Who does Matyi Ludas beat three times?	the iron-nosed midwife	the Gev judge	Nils Holgersson	It's crashing	D	LITERATURE
3	What was kept in the calamari in the past?	pig feed	ink	paper	waste	B	LANGUAGE
4	What does the constantly gnawing koala eat?	with bamboo	with eucalyptus leaves	with beetroot	with coconut	B	BIOLOGY
5	Which jazz musician was nicknamed "Satchmo"?	Miles Davis	Benny Goodman	Louis Armstrong	Duke Ellington	C	MUSIC
1	Who shapes the fashion trends?	the fashion shamans	the clothing gurus	the female sculptors	the fashion dictators	D	GENERAL
2	"The clip is tight," goes the saying. Which part of our body does it need?	on our hands	on our feet	on our heads	on our waist	B	GENERAL
3	What kind of animal is it?	young lamb	wether	aged cattle	race horse	B	BIOLOGY
4	Why did Kalman Mikszath write a novel about the siege?	It's gross	Mouse	Besterce	Szigetvar	C	LITERATURE
5	What are downy mildew pests?	mushrooms	mites	lice	viruses	A	BIOLOGY
6	What is the color of Islam?	green	yellow	white	black	A	RELIGION
7	Who discovered the alleged ruins of Troy?	Champollion	Homer	Schliemann	Evans	C	HISTORY
1	Complete the sentence. "The booing is right,..."	tiger	Lion	cow	cockatoo	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of kitchen tool is a väjdling?	sink bowl	wooden spoon	kneading board	pasta cutter	A	GENERAL
3	Who played the role of the elegant singer-dancer in the operettas?	the amorous	the intriguer	on bonviva	the resonator	C	OPERA
4	Which of our kings was Beatrix the wife of?	II. Louis	Matthias	St. Stephen	Robert Karoly	B	HISTORY
5	Whose wife turned into an idol of salt when she looked back?	Clinton	A horse	Putifar	Noah	B	RELIGION
6	Why did suffragettes fight at the turn of the century?	against the corset	for women's suffrage	for the right to divorce	for the right to learn	B	HISTORY
1	Which of the following is used by winemakers?	poor	nice	guardian	thief	D	GENERAL
2	On what basis can we have our horoscope prepared?	our body weight	our birth time	our foot size	the age of our parents	B	GENERAL
3	In which city is the headquarters of the United Nations?	Paris	Geneva	San Francisco	new York	D	COUNTRIES
4	What is the common name of the funeral mass?	kyrie	tedium	mass solemnis	requiem	D	RELIGION
5	What does calling a sanzadu mean in a card game?	red is trump	played without a trump card	spades is the trump card	the joker is the trump card	B	GAME
6	Which nation built the famous Machu Picchu?	the aztecs	the Incas	the Sioux	the Persians	B	HISTORY
7	Who was the educator of Janos Hunyadi's sons?	Janus Pannonius	Brave John	Johannes Regiomontanus	Brave Johann	B	HISTORY
8	What is the function of a telescope in a car?	vision enhancer	shock absorber	fuel dispenser	ignition adjuster	B	TECHNIQUE
9	Who played the main role in the classic western "Six Tooth"?	Steve Martin	John Wayne	Charles Bronson	Steve McQueen	B	MOVIE
10	Which wrestler won gold medals in two consecutive Olympics?	Istvan Kozma	Imre Hodos	Gyula Bobis	Csaba Hegedus	A	SPORTS
1	What drink is in the title of Horvath's Charlie song: "Ice..."	with non-alcoholic beer	with double coffee	with simple brandy	with double whiskey	D	MUSIC
2	What kind of wall is Zsigmond Moricz's famous novel about?	New Year's	gentry	sir	cross lord	C	LITERATURE
3	Who was Jockey Ewing Patrick Duffy's brother in Dallas?	Lucy	Jimmy	Steve	Bobby	D	MOVIE
4	The fruit of which tree is one of the colors of the Hungarian card?	Pine tree	walnut	almond	Oak tree	D	GAME
5	What is the speed of sound in air?	330 km/s	330 m/s	400 km/s	400 m/s	B	SCIENCE
6	What was the name of the rock musician Zoltan Zana?	Pinball Brother	Pierrot	Qka MC	Ganxsta Zolee	D	MUSIC
7	Who succeeded Stalin as head of the Soviet Communist Party?	Andrei Gromyko	Nikita Khrushchev	Georgy Malenkov	Leonid Brezhnev	B	HISTORY
8	What is the name of a Muslim judge who judges based on customary law and the Koran?	dervish	Hodge	tub	divan	C	RELIGION
9	What was the name of the first Hungarian film studio?	Hungary	Urania	Hunnia	Pannonia	C	MOVIE
1	HeV is the abbreviated form of the name of which means of transport?	Commuter railway	Long Life Railway	Hamar Erkezo Railway	Local and intercity railway	A	GENERAL
2	To what animal is it customary to compare a member of a family who has gone astray?	White Raven	black sheep	gray dove	black cat	B	LANGUAGE
3	Which part of the flower is the stem?	the petal	its stamens	the handle	his testicles	C	BIOLOGY
4	Who did King Edward want to marry in the ballad of Janos Arany?	the Welsh bards	Montgomery	the Lord Major	force majeure	C	LITERATURE
5	Who represented England at the Yalta Conference in 1945?	Attlee	Churchill	Truman	Macmillan	B	HISTORY
1	Where does the saying say the calf stares?	to the new trough	to the new pasture	to the new gate	to the new bull	C	LANGUAGE
2	What did sailors measure in knots long ago?	the ship's speed	the width of the mainsail	the distance to the mainland	the length of the ship	A	GENERAL
3	Where did Hades, the lord of the underworld, kidnap Hercules from in Walt Disney's cartoon?	of Helikon	from Tantalus	of the Taygetos	of Olympus	D	MOVIE
4	Which country is not a Baltic state?	Estonia	Latvia	Lithuania	Georgia	D	COUNTRIES
5	Which name is used to refer to Mor Jokai?	the penman of the nation	the great storyteller	the herald of history	the artist of the moment	B	LITERATURE
6	Where is Brunswick Castle located in Hungary?	Satoraljaujhely	On Sírak	Ashdod	Martonvasar	D	HUNGARY
7	Who made Christianity the official religion in ancient Rome?	Augustus	Diocletian	Tiberius	Constantine	D	HISTORY
1	Which of the following is a popular name for corn?	lake	maritime	river	stream	B	LANGUAGE
2	What day and night is in the title of the movie starring the Beatles?	a bold one	an easy one	a difficult one	a musician	C	MOVIE
3	Which type of ship was propelled with oars?	the clipper	the schooner	the caravel	the galley	D	GENERAL
4	What color is not in The Tragedy of Man?	Egyptian	Roman	athenian	Persian	D	LITERATURE
5	According to the Bible, who did Abraham want to sacrifice?	Esau	Jacob	Elijah	Isaac	D	RELIGION
6	Whose popular name was Jank Szibinyani?	John Husz	Janos Szapolyai	Janos Capistran	Janos Hunyadi	D	HISTORY
7	In which opera can you hear the chorus beginning with "Meghalt a cselszov is dead, the ugly feud is no longer raging"?	Erkel: Bank bank	Rossini: Vilmos Tell	Verdi: Nabucco	Erkel: Laszlo Hunyadi	D	OPERA
1	Where does something stink according to the hotel?	in the chemist shop	in the sock drawer	in the cheese store	in Denmark	D	LANGUAGE
2	What "party" did Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau play in the title of their comedy?	niggardly	buggery	strange	married	C	MOVIE
3	Which animal is not among the musicians of Bremen?	goose	donkey	rooster	cat	A	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following is not a type of wine?	bull's blood	Irene Kocsis	grey-friendly	to grieve	B	KITCHEN
5	What does someone who puts someone on a pedestal do?	sacrifice	makes public	glorifies	puts it on a pedestal	C	LANGUAGE
6	Ham is made from which of the following types of pork?	swelling	thigh	fart	trotters	B	KITCHEN
1	Which is a well-known activity carried out at spiritualist seances?	stool floating	hockey jump	bed running	table dancing	D	GENERAL
2	Which instrument name indicates a type of brake?	tuba	bass guitar	harpsichord	drum	D	LANGUAGE
3	Which part of the body did Cyrano, the hero of the Rostand drama, have?	his ears	his leg	his nose	his finger	C	LITERATURE
4	The female of which wild animal is called a suta?	squirrel	roe	ostrich	chamois	B	BIOLOGY
5	Which of the following is the title of a novel by Antal Szerb?	The Forsyte Saga	The Pendragon Legend	The Thibault family	Buddenbrook House	B	LITERATURE
6	Where did count Istvan Szechenyi die?	Nagycenken	In Dobling	in Debrecen	in Budapest	B	HISTORY
7	Whose work was the basis for Zoltan Kodaly's play Janos Hary?	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Sandor Kisfaludy	Ferenc Verseghy	John Garay	D	OPERA
1	What kandur is in the well-known fairy tale?	sorry	hat	boots	boots	D	LITERATURE
2	Which of the following is called a pipiter?	a plant	the chicken coop	songbird	the poultry yard	A	LANGUAGE
3	The famous museum of which city is the Louvre?	Reims	Paris	Lyon	Marseilles	B	COUNTRIES
4	Vilmos Tell is the national hero of which country?	France	Scotland	Switzerland	The Netherlands	C	COUNTRIES
5	Which band sang about how heavy the school bag is?	Bojtorjan ensemble	Bergendy ensemble	Phonograph ensemble	Neoton Família	B	MUSIC
6	Muammar Gaddafi is the head of state of which country?	Lebanon	Egypt	Libya	Afghanistan	C	HISTORY
7	Who is the patron saint of travelers?	Saint Barbara	Saint Christopher	Saint Jerome	Saint Martin	B	RELIGION
8	Which country is called Myanmar today?	Burma	Ceylon	Laos	Thailand	A	COUNTRIES
9	Where did the Romans finally defeat Hannibal?	At Mediolanum	At Cannae	At Tarentum	At Zama's	D	HISTORY
10	Which actress became famous by her original surname?	Marlene Dietrich	Sophia Loren	Brigitte Bardot	Marilyn Monroe	C	MOVIE
11	Who discovered the mountains of the Moon and the four moons of Jupiter with his telescope?	Nicolaus Copernicus	Galileo Galilei	Johannes Kepler	Karl Friedrich Gauss	B	SCIENCE
1	Who is Castor's twin in Greek and Roman mythology?	Deluxe	Cellux	Pollux	Pollen	C	RELIGION
2	What is the title of the first part of the film series about the adventures of Lieutenant Drebin?	Fluffy gun	Bare gun	Rotten carbine	Bald gun	B	MOVIE
3	According to the folk song, on which river would I go to ladik?	Raban	On the Danube	Tisza	Sajon	C	LITERATURE
4	What is Hitler's 1923 coup attempt called?	wine coup	beer coup	rum coup	snap coup	B	HISTORY
5	Which of the following can weevils harm?	in the bean	in the parquet	in the potato leaf	in the dress	A	BIOLOGY
6	Who is the main character of Laszlo Arany's work The Hero of Mirage?	Pal Pato	Balazs Hubele	Csepu Palko	Foolish Istok	B	LITERATURE
1	What type of proof was included in the technical language of the printers?	comb	forceps	brush	pump	C	LANGUAGE
2	Who is the protagonist of the crime-comedy series starring Louis de Funes?	Derrick	Batman	Zoro	Phantom	D	MOVIE
3	What did he get who was given obsit?	monthly salary	dismissal document	hot dinner	promotion	B	LANGUAGE
4	What is the title of Chaucer's main work?	Tales from Crow Hill	Canterbury Tales	Tales of Hoffmann	Tales of Uncle Remus	B	LITERATURE
5	What is the horse called snow?	untamable	with a spotted forehead	fast	White	B	BIOLOGY
6	In which castle was Balint Balassi born?	A blister	Szendr	Knife brand	Esztergom	A	LITERATURE
1	What can we do with the trace of the one who solved the wheel?	we can keep it hot	we can hit it with a stick	can be cast in plaster	we can push it away	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is the name of a card game?	ticklish	Mary's	fertilization	coral	B	GAME
3	Complete the title of Gerald Durrell's work. "My family and other..."	strokes of fate	animal species	trials	extraterrestrials	B	LITERATURE
4	What was Jozsef Bem's origin?	Polish	Croatian	Austrian	Saxon	A	HISTORY
5	Which river was controlled by the construction of the Aswan Dam?	the Nile	the Yangtze	the Amazon	the Mississippi	A	GEOGRAPHY
6	Who did Vorosmarty recommend his poem A merenghoz to?	For Rose	To Laura	To Julia	For food	B	LITERATURE
7	In which event did Tibor Gecsek become first at the 1998 European Championships in Budapest?	in javelin throwing	in the hammer throw	in discus throwing	in the shot put	B	SPORTS
8	To which plant does hops belong?	hemp	barley	anemone	poppy	A	BIOLOGY
1	Who or what does the vernacular jokingly call gezenguz?	the naughty baby mongoose	the unruly child	the mischievous dressing nurse	the weeds weeded out	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is one of the zodiac signs of the horoscope?	birds	snakes	frogs	Pisces	D	GENERAL
3	What is the title of RTL Klub's cooking show?	Culinary art	Recipe Club	Rozi school	Mess with us!	B	GENERAL
4	What time of day is it when it's drizzling outside?	afternoon	in the morning	dawn	midnight	C	GENERAL
5	Gyula Vikidal played the lead role in the musical based on which Victor Hugo novel?	Notre-Dame in Paris	The miserable ones	The laughing man	Workers of the sea	B	MUSIC
6	What is the position of an adjutant in the army?	food commissioner	district supervisor	auxiliary officer	locator manager	C	GENERAL
7	Who was the president of the USA during the Hungarian revolution of 1956?	Eisenhower	Nixon	Kennedy	Truman	A	HISTORY
1	What results from the chemical reaction of an acid and a base?	salt	pepper	clove	ginger	A	SCIENCE
2	What brother-in-law is mentioned in the Hungarian folk poem beginning with "Egyedem-begyedem sea dance"?	Austrian	Hajdu	labanc	Polish	B	LITERATURE
3	Where is he who is in a garrison?	in a one-room apartment	in garrison	in the kitchen	in a doctor's office	B	LANGUAGE
4	What is the title of Lloyd Webber's musical: "Joseph and the colorful, widescreen..."	film frame	television	dream coat	wonder boy	C	MUSIC
5	What was called a heron spinner?	headdress ornament	wheel type	fried bird leg	elbow pads	A	LANGUAGE
6	In which country did the Boxer Rebellion break out?	India	China	Japan	Egypt	B	HISTORY
1	What is the back of the shivering man, according to the saying?	in snakeskin	in dog skin	in angel skin	in goosebumps	D	LANGUAGE
2	Keep the song going! "It's always the most beautiful moment, what..."	we don't have time to live	life does not give	one sleeps through	the man fills with wine	B	MUSIC
3	What unit is a hectare?	volume	crowd	area	length	C	SCIENCE
4	What is the "country" in the title of Ferenc Lehar's operetta?	the smile	the love	the Amazons	the tears	A	OPERA
5	Who Mourns Mexico, according to the title of Passuth's novel?	Cortez	Rain god	Sun god	Montezuma	B	LITERATURE
6	Where is the headquarters of the International Red Cross?	in Paris	in Geneva	in Brussels	in Wienna	B	COUNTRIES
7	What do the eastern peoples do with those?	they drink it	they play drums on it	they fish with it	they smoke it	A	GENERAL
1	What kind of "outlaw" do you call a naughty man who calls women names?	bitumen	cement	asphalt	gypsum	C	LANGUAGE
2	What was the title of Kevin Costner's famous movie? "With Wolves..."	driver	speeding	dancing	dreamy	C	MOVIE
3	Where is the genie who serves Aladdin locked up?	into a closet	into a lamp	into a harem	into a can	B	LITERATURE
4	How do chess players decide who takes the opening move?	always the dark	by arrangement	always the light	by tossing money	C	GAME
5	Huta is a technical term belonging to which profession?	barber	tanner	metallurgist	he's hot	C	LANGUAGE
6	What is the abbreviation of the UN World Health Organization?	UNESCO	WHO	UNICEF	FAO	B	GENERAL
7	Which plant was called Turkish wheat?	the barley	the oats	the corn	the hops	C	BIOLOGY
8	Where does Mihaly Tímar, the golden man, settle down at the end of the Jokai novel?	on Csepel Island	on the island of Mohacs	on the island of No Man	on the island of the Blessed	C	LITERATURE
9	Which composer among those listed never wrote an opera?	Bizet	Bellini	Brahms	Beethoven	C	OPERA
10	In which sport did we win our first European championship?	rowing	in figure skating	in swimming	in boxing	B	SPORTS
1	Which animal tempted Eve to part with the fruit of the forbidden tree?	donkey	raven	snake	camel	C	RELIGION
2	What kind of ax handle do we refer to when we refer to an unsalvageable case?	broken	found	trained	lost	D	LANGUAGE
3	Who does Miklos Izso's best-known sculpture depict?	pensive man	goulash	fleet shepherd	bleating shepherd	D	FINE ARTS
4	Which city was formerly called New Amsterdam?	Canberra	Buenos Aires	Los Angeles	new York	D	COUNTRIES
1	Which part of the body does the person who gets into trouble with someone hit?	seat	ankle	your knees	his toe	B	GENERAL
2	Which of the following will be given to the person to whom a blue franc is presented?	French coin	red wine	clothing fabric	ink	B	LANGUAGE
3	What was the Roman name of Danubius?	For Buda	For Pest	to the Danube	to Balaton	C	HISTORY
4	Which Hungarian singer wrote and sang "I'm not a nun"?	Zalatnay Sarolta	Judit Szucs	Kati Kovacs	Zsuzsa Cserhati	A	MUSIC
5	Which of the following films is not a horror film?	Radiance	Omen	Salem witches	The code	C	MOVIE
6	Which ministerial position did Gabor Baross hold?	public works and transport	Minister of War	Minister of Foreign Affairs	healthcare	A	HISTORY
7	Who among those listed is not a Baroque composer?	Vivaldi	Grieg	JS Bach	Purcell	B	OPERA
8	Which of the following is not an ingredient of baby sponge cake?	flour	egg	milk	sugar	C	KITCHEN
9	Where were the first Winter Olympics held in 1924?	Grenoble	St. Moritz	Lake Placid	Chamonix	D	SPORTS
1	What is the old exclamation? "Lord of Eb…!"	ketch	Mako	jacket	pale	D	LANGUAGE
2	What do Eskimos use an igloo for?	for hunting	they cook in it	for skiing	they live in it	D	GENERAL
3	Who is the main god in Roman mythology?	Mars	Jupiter	Pluto	Zeus	B	RELIGION
4	Which organ produces bile?	kidney	liver	step	lungs	B	BIOLOGY
5	Which operetta was written by jr. Johann Strauss based on a Jokai work?	The Gypsy Baron	The bat	A night in Venice	Gypsy love	A	OPERA
6	What is the origin of the excellent musician brothers Dusan and Zoran Sztevanovity?	Croatian	Slovenian	Serbian	Slovak	C	MUSIC
7	Which actor was the "tall blond man in the half shoes"?	Terence Hill	Louis de Funes	Pierre Richard	Yves Montand	C	MOVIE
8	How many Olympics did the Hungarian team not participate in?	individual	on two	on three	attended all of them	B	SPORTS
1	What does someone who leaves suddenly leave behind?	house, country	tap, priest	oats, beans	ranch, banya	B	LANGUAGE
2	What invention did thistle inspire?	cellux	Velcro	mace	pincushion	B	TECHNIQUE
3	What instrument did Charles Bronson play in the western movie Once Upon a Time in the Wild West?	on banjo	tamtam	harmonica	on the lute	C	MOVIE
4	The currency of which of the following countries is the centime?	Belgium	Egypt	Finland	Bulgaria	A	COUNTRIES
5	In which musical stage work is the song beginning "If I were rich..." heard?	Beggar's opera	Fiddler on the Roof	They were miserable	Porgy and Bess	B	OPERA
6	What kind of animal is your ball?	female goat	male lamb	little cock	small chicken	A	BIOLOGY
7	Which country leads the world in coffee production?	Ethiopia	Brazil	Mexico	Venezuela	B	COUNTRIES
8	Which English football team is nicknamed "the Gunners"?	Manchester United	Arsenal	Aston Villa	Liverpool	B	SPORTS
9	Where else besides the USA was the Declaration of Independence issued?	in England	in France	in Finland	in Hungary	D	HISTORY
1	How to get to know the other person according to the saying?	living	satiated	with a private investigator	in his sleep	A	LANGUAGE
2	How many stars does the constellation called Goncolszeker in the vernacular consist of?	five	six	seven	eight	C	GENERAL
3	What is the title of Katayev's famous novel? "Far away a ..."	red partisan	white sail	Mr. Troika	nickel samovar	B	LITERATURE
4	According to the Bible, who washed his hands when Jesus was condemned?	Pontius Pilate	A foodie	Judas	Herod	A	RELIGION
1	How does the well-known nursery rhyme: "Ecc-pecc..." continue?	you can come over	you can sit down	you can go out	you can eat	C	LITERATURE
2	What is the title of the highly successful Hungarian film: "Love..."	to first blood	for another week	under the door mat	to angel skin	A	MOVIE
3	Complete the Petfi quote! "… I need these two."	Revolution, glory!	Freedom love!	Gun, dude!	Marriage, peace!	B	LITERATURE
4	"He has, what does he have?" According to the song of Fenyes Szabolcs?	piss nose	kissable lips	fluffy hair	heart of gold	C	MUSIC
5	The technical terms for which sport are opening, dropping and barricading?	basketball	volleyball	chess	tennis	B	SPORTS
6	Which of the following did you call the culvert of the vernacular?	mustache tie	pipe stem snuff	tobacco leaf	horse grooming brush	B	LANGUAGE
7	Who studied at the madrasah?	reformed students	Parisian medics	Buddhist monks	Muslim students	D	LANGUAGE
8	Which psychological concept is in the title of Camus's well-known novel?	apathy	stupor	indifference	trust	C	LITERATURE
9	Which historical figure was called il Magnifico by his contemporaries?	Lorenzo de' Medici	II. Viktor Emanuel	Francesco Petrarca	Giuseppe Verdi	A	HISTORY
10	Who were the "bajazzos" in Leoncavallo's opera?	court musicians	fishermen	traveling comedians	gold smugglers	C	OPERA
1	What does someone who exaggerates a problem do?	an elephant from a flea	goat's cabbage	wooden iron hoop	from an ant to a mammoth	A	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of "beard" are notorious womanizers called?	Capricorn	black	blue	goat	C	LANGUAGE
3	Who invented the magic cube?	Janos Harsanyi	Ern Rubik	Robert Lamb	Olah Gyorgy	B	GAME
4	Which country is San Marino's only neighbor?	France	Spain	Italy	Switzerland	C	GEOGRAPHY
5	Which opera features a beautiful gypsy girl, a bullfighter and a corporal among others?	Verdi: The Troubadour	Puccini: Tosca	Verdi: Traviata	Bizet: Carmen	D	OPERA
6	Prospero is the protagonist of which play?	The miser	The storm	Antigone's	Phaedra	B	LITERATURE
7	Where is the former Sandor Palace?	in Visegrad Castle	on Varhegy in Buda	in the castle of Eger	in the castle of Siklos	B	HUNGARY
8	What kind of doctor does someone who goes to a dermatologist see?	to a dentist	to a dermatologist	to an ophthalmologist	to a gynecologist	B	BIOLOGY
1	What did the vernacular call a man with neglected clothes?	nose fell	branched off	fell from a horse	he slept	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of cultivated vegetable got the name "bogyszlo thick-fleshed"?	pea	cabbage	paprika	cucumber	C	KITCHEN
3	Who were not seven of the following movie characters?	Snow White's dwarfs	The Musketeers of Dumas	Kurosawa's Samurai	Sturges' snipers	B	MOVIE
4	Which band sang about Lady Madonna in 1968?	Bee Gees	Beatles	Rolling Stones	Who	B	MUSIC
5	What innovation did the Michelin brothers introduce to the car?	the seat belt	the drum brake	the boxer engine	the tire	D	TECHNIQUE
6	Who fights the dragon in the only surviving statue of the Cluj brothers?	St. George	Saint Mark	Saint Wenceslas	Saint Florian	A	FINE ARTS
7	Which of the listed mountain ranges is not a member of the Northern Central Mountains?	Seedling	Beech tree	Purse	Gerecce	D	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which of the following countries does not have a tricolor flag?	Czech Republic	Luxembourg	Ireland	Poland	D	COUNTRIES
9	The scene on the banks of the Tisza is a dramatic part of which Hungarian opera?	Laszlo Hunyadi	Castle of the Bluebeard Prince	Sorry, sorry	King Pomade's new outfit	C	OPERA
1	What is the name of a means of transport?	sliding	climbing	glider	crawling	C	GENERAL
2	Keep the saying going! "No money, no..."	dinner	post	peace	woman	B	LANGUAGE
3	What natural calamity is associated with Noah's name in the Bible?	earthquake	volcano eruption	fire	flood	D	RELIGION
4	Which dish is called pan-fried potatoes?	potato stew	potato casserole	pepper fries	fries are hot	C	KITCHEN
5	Troy is located in the territory of which present-day country?	Turkey	Syria	Cyprus	Greece	A	HISTORY
6	Which country did Emperor Hirohito rule?	in China	in Ethiopia	in Japan	in Indonesia	C	HISTORY
7	Who was Dante's muse?	Laura	Beatrice	Thick margin	Lucrezia	B	LITERATURE
8	At which university did Albert Szent-Gyorgyi work as a professor when he won the Nobel Prize?	from Szeged	from Budapest	Oxford	of Cambridge	A	SCIENCE
9	In which Fellini film did Marcello Mastroianni not star?	The sweet life	Ginger and Fred	On a country road	8 and a half	C	MOVIE
10	Who founded the Russian Ballet?	Sergey Gyagilev	Mikhail Fokin	Igor Stravinsky	Vaclav Nizhinsky	A	ART
1	Which of the following does a botanist not deal with?	with grass	with wood	with wildflowers	with a wild cat	D	BIOLOGY
2	Which city is in the name of the author of "Word of the Wild"?	Manchester	London	Boston	Milwaukee	B	LITERATURE
3	What kind of journey did Gabor Presser sing about in the movie Never Die?	around the world	large	buckshee	Mr	B	MOVIE
4	According to whose plans was the first domestic electrified railway line built?	Kalman Kando	abraham Ganz	Treat Dona	anyos Jedlik	A	HUNGARY
5	What was the name of the official at the head of the Hungarian counties in the Middle Ages?	castellan	Spaniard	butler	ritter	B	HISTORY
6	Where does the hunter sit in long, sad ambush in the poem Szep Ilonka?	in Matra	in Bakony	in Pilis	in Vertes	D	LITERATURE
7	From which section of the calf is the one who buys a rose?	from his thigh	from his chest	from the chop	from the tenderloin	A	KITCHEN
8	Which species of bear is called a grizzly?	the black bear	the grizzly bear	the golden bear	the polar bear	B	BIOLOGY
9	What language was the New Testament written in?	Greek	Arabic	Latin	Hebrew	A	RELIGION
10	In which country is the central mountain range called the Vosges?	in France	in Germany	in Sweden	in the Czech Republic	A	GEOGRAPHY
11	In which band did Miklos Galla, the popular comedian, perform?	Nautilus	GM 49	V' 73	Icarus	D	MUSIC
1	What kind of letter does someone who takes a detour make to get somewhere?	shoemaker	Shoemaker	blacksmith	barber	B	LANGUAGE
2	According to the rules of etiquette, what should be done when someone receives a gift?	to give back	unfold	to pass on	put down unopened	B	GENERAL
3	Which farm building has the same name as a board game?	press house	mill	up	home bar	B	GAME
4	Which famous detective investigates the classic movie Murder on the Orient Express?	Sherlock Holmes	Philip Marlowe	Hercule Poirot	Sam Spade	C	MOVIE
5	Who was adam Beri Balogh a contemporary?	Sandor Petofi	Dozsa Gyorgy	II. Ferenc Rakoczi	Robert Karoly	C	HISTORY
6	Which ancient city was destroyed by a volcanic eruption?	Alexandria	Herculaneum	Syracuse	Carthage	B	HISTORY
7	What is the title of Sergio Leone's last film: "Once upon a time..."	wild west	family	America	cowboy	C	MOVIE
8	Where were the 1998 Winter Olympics?	in Calgary	in Lillehammer	In Nagano	in Albertville	C	SPORTS
9	"Romeo and Juliet" and "Sultans Of Swing" are the records of which British band?	Genesis	Dire Straits	Yes	Pink Floyd	B	MUSIC
10	Which of the following is not a precious metal?	platinum	nickel	osmium	ruthenium	B	SCIENCE
11	What is Al Capone's nickname for "Al"?	Alfred	Alphonse	Alan	Alec	B	GENERAL
12	From whom did Ferenc Kolcsey derive his family?	From leader Ond	From Janos Hunyadi	From Prince arpad	ARC. From Bela	A	LITERATURE
1	What happens to the very surprising person?	your lips are dry	jaw drops	her hair falls out	his eyes are bloodshot	B	GENERAL
2	Which animal can have sword wings?	Golden Eagle	checkered army	swordfish	dolphin	D	BIOLOGY
3	Who is chased by the police inspector in Victor Hugo's Les Miserables?	Quasimodo	Jean Valjean	Monte Cristo	Edmont Dantes	B	LITERATURE
4	What is the name of the old master who made Pinocchio?	Giuseppe	Geppetto	Jovanni	Dzankarlo	B	LITERATURE
5	Which element's chemical symbol is "Pb"?	lead	you	propane	butane	A	SCIENCE
6	What part of the beef is the oxtail soup made from?	from his ears	from her udder	from his tail	from your kidneys	C	KITCHEN
7	Which film's main characters do not walk in space?	Armageddon	The globe	Interstellar invasion	The Phantom Menace	B	MOVIE
8	Where is the Tessedik Samuel Museum located in Hungary?	Mezkovesden	On deer	On a muddy stream	riszentpeter	B	HUNGARY
9	Which composer among the following did not write music for Romeo and Juliet's love story?	Tchaikovsky	Ferenc Liszt	Berlioz	Prokofiev	B	OPERA
1	What was the name of the hotel he sang about on the Hungaria band's 1981 album?	Hotel Menthol	Hotel Anizs	Hotel Ginger	Hotel Nougat	A	MUSIC
2	What kind of rose is the peony called?	water baptism	carnival	Easter	Pentecostal	D	LANGUAGE
3	Which is the largest island in Greece?	Corfu	Hios	Rhodes	Chalk	D	GEOGRAPHY
4	Which of the following is the title of a work by Istvan Fekete?	I'm a thrush	Sunny berek	Winter bereks	Illa berek	C	LITERATURE
5	How many counties does Hungary have?	15	19	22	25	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	What was called lime in the old days?	the tit	the ant	a measure of space	a measure of length	C	LANGUAGE
7	Where did Sandor Petfi spend his honeymoon?	In Venice	Kolton	Aradon	Pope	B	LITERATURE
8	Who used to be called peregrinus?	the king's clerks	the priest students	the migrant students	the copiers	C	LANGUAGE
1	Who is not one of Snow White's seven dwarfs?	Growling	sneeze	Sende	He's a dwarf	D	LITERATURE
2	What kind of car is featured in Jen Rejt's well-known novel?	one million pounds	twenty-two ounces	fourteen carats	seven thousand cubic centimeters	C	LITERATURE
3	What kind of hair did the band Omega sing about in the 60s?	flax	Pearl	ratio	red	B	MUSIC
4	Who is called the hat king?	Ferenc Jozsefet	ARC. Charles	II. Joseph	I. Lipot	C	HISTORY
1	What is a newt like among the following?	it's stupid	crested	rocking	braided	B	BIOLOGY
2	What is the title of Miklos Jancso's film about outlaws?	The gendarme steps aside	Poor guys	Sandor Rozsa teases the cop	Laci, the outlaw	B	MOVIE
3	What do the eastern peoples call bakshis?	about teenage girls	sweet cake	tip	two-wheeled cart	C	LANGUAGE
4	Where is Count Dracula believed to have lived?	in Italy	In Havasalfold	in Serbia	In Scotland	B	GENERAL
5	In which of our counties is Lake Velencei located?	Pest	Head	Komarom-Esztergom	Veszprem	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	Whose death is in the title of Janos Arany's work?	arpad	Buddha	Svatopluk	He breathes	B	LITERATURE
7	It is well known that Neil Armstrong was the first man to walk on the moon, but who was the second?	Michael Collins	Edwin Aldrin	John Glenn	Alexey Leonov	B	SCIENCE
1	What is another name for deryle?	brother-in-law	donkey ears	friendly ear	pig tail	C	KITCHEN
2	What is the name of the famous ship of the Thousand and One Nights?	Jafar	Sinbad	Aladdin	Ali Baba	B	LITERATURE
3	What disease is caused by a disorder of insulin production?	anemia	wolf blindness	diabetes	stomach ulcer	C	BIOLOGY
4	What does the person who used to be called a hairdresser do?	by preserving reliefs	with a haircut	with deep cooling	selling vegetables	B	LANGUAGE
5	At what performance can we meet Mimus?	shadow play	puppet show	pantomime	opera	C	ART
6	What position did Kalman Mikszath hold in the last two decades of his life?	academic secretary	trade union president	serf judge	parliamentarian	D	LITERATURE
7	Who were the Hittites?	Persian heirs to the throne	our Finno-Ugric language relatives	ancient people	impressionist painters	C	GENERAL
8	Which of the following pieces of music is not composed by Gabor Presser?	The test	I am thirty years old	The attic	God's money	D	MUSIC
1	What animal is Donald, Walt Disney's world-famous cartoon character?	little mole	octopus	duck	muslica	C	MOVIE
2	Which type of squash is not grown for food?	pumpkin	pumpkin	thieves	asparagus	C	KITCHEN
3	What is silent in the title of Solohov's novel?	the Caucasus	the Volga	the Don	Kamchatka	C	LITERATURE
4	Under what name did Karol Wojtyla become famous?	Frederic Chopin	Nicolaus Copernicus	II. Pope John Paul	Henryk Sienkiewicz	C	GENERAL
5	From which country did the band ABBA start their world-famous journey?	From Sweden	From Great Britain	From Denmark	From the Netherlands	A	MUSIC
6	Where are those who are in an ambit?	on a fencing mat	on a columned porch	lowland mower	in an open-sided granary	B	LANGUAGE
7	The Karagyorjevics were the rulers of which nation?	Serbian	Romanian	Russian	Albanian	A	HISTORY
8	Which of the listed counties is not affected by the Tisza?	Szabolcs-Szatmar-Bereg	Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok	Csongrad	peaceful	D	GEOGRAPHY
9	Where can you see the Venus of Willendorf?	in Paris	in Newyork	in Berlin	in Wienna	D	COUNTRIES
1	According to the folk song, where is it not good to live?	in a doghouse	on the edge of the border	in an apartment building	next to the forest	D	LITERATURE
2	Which color is not in the flag of France?	white	red	green	blue	C	COUNTRIES
3	Who among the following is the title character of a Gogol work?	critic	auditor	notary	tax collector	B	LITERATURE
4	What is yeast made of?	from mushrooms	from algae	from bacteria	from mosses	A	BIOLOGY
5	Who was the first joint ruler of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy?	ARC. Charles	II. Joseph	Franz Joseph	Ferenc Ferdinand	C	HISTORY
6	What was the hooded, round collared, masked costume ball dress called?	Morocco	domino	jenga	Macau	B	LANGUAGE
7	What kind of animal is a harpy?	bird	fish	predator	wallet	A	BIOLOGY
8	What does the word molasses, often used in prayers, mean?	worship	grace	shelter	help	B	RELIGION
9	Who was not one of the famous Bronte sisters?	Charlotte	Anne	Emily	Caroline	D	GENERAL
10	Which of the following authors refused the Nobel Prize for Literature?	Alexander Solzhenitsyn	Bohumil Hrabal	Thomas Mann	To Boris Paster	D	LITERATURE
1	What kind of shepherd is in the well-known tale?	iron-nosed	hen-handed	paddle-eared	starry eyed	D	LITERATURE
2	What does someone who buys Malaga spend his money on?	for cigars	on a parrot	wine	decorative sword	C	LANGUAGE
3	On the Buda side of which bridge is the 0th kilometer stone?	Margaret Bridge	Erzsebet Bridge	chain Bridge	Freedom Bridge	C	HUNGARY
4	Our word Hupikek comes from the word "hupal". What did it mean?	waves	picking plums	beat-beat	stands for hussar	C	LANGUAGE
5	Whose name is the College of Music named after?	Ferenc Erkel	Zoltan Kodaly	Ferenc Liszt	Bela Bartok	C	OPERA
6	Whose complaints did Dezs Kosztolanyi write a cycle of poems about?	Kornel Esti	Sweet Anna	the poor little child	the lost prince	C	LITERATURE
7	Who was the male athlete of the year 2000 in Hungary?	Gyorgy Kolonics	Gabor Balogh	Csollany New Year's Eve	Storcz Botond	C	SPORTS
8	On whose initiative was the Bavarian Gizi Actors' Museum established?	Major Tamas	Gobbi Hilda	Nanny Margit	Antal Pager	B	THEATER
9	With which film did the era of Hungarian sound films begin?	Purple acacia	The fairy tale car	The blue idol	Hippolytus, the footman	C	MOVIE
1	How does the well-known Hungarian folk poem continue: "Kerekecske, gnombocska, icht salad ..."?	little horse	fox	rabbit	lizard	C	LITERATURE
2	What does pizzicato mean?	a kind of pizza	plucking the strings	the nickname of the name Katalin	Japanese gymnastics element	B	LANGUAGE
3	What is Jen Jozsi Marci Tersanszky's hero like?	Falcon	Cuckoo	Dove	Finch	B	LITERATURE
4	What is the occupation of the main character of the Hungarian comedy "We will never die"?	Mr. Tailor	hanger wood seller	jockey	disc jockey	B	MOVIE
5	What do astronomers call supergiants?	the largest planets	the largest comets	the largest space shuttles	the biggest stars	D	SCIENCE
6	Which country has won the Olympic fencing team championship seven times in a row?	Hungary	Italy	Soviet Union	Germany	A	SPORTS
7	Which plant is not a grass?	maize	sugar cane	flax	barley	C	BIOLOGY
1	Which of your relatives should come here according to the saying?	your sister, your brother	your aunt, your bed	your father, your mother	your cousin, your coma	C	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of statue "guards" the pyramids of Giza?	phoenix	sphinx	growl	hydra	B	COUNTRIES
3	Which of the following countries is one of the most important sugarcane growers?	Canada	Cuba	Mongolia	Lithuania	B	COUNTRIES
4	What is the "taste" of in the title of Istvan Szabo's film?	the sunlight	the moonbeam	the rainbow	ambrosia	A	MOVIE
5	In what unit is air pressure measured in the SI system?	atmosphere	millimeters of mercury	Pascal	joule	C	SCIENCE
6	What did a feudal lord have if he had a banner?	treasury	his army	heir	his summer residence	B	HISTORY
7	Which day of the week is considered a holiday in Islam?	Saturday	Tuesday	Friday	Sunday	C	RELIGION
8	The ancient name of which metal is zinc?	antimony	lead	copper	you	D	LANGUAGE
1	Which of the following is a joking rebuke?	cat meowed	pigeon cooed	he blew it	he gasped	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is the name of the wife of the cartoon character Geza Mezga?	Hedi	Paula	Paulina	Louise	B	MOVIE
3	What animal is on the hot tin roof in the title of the play by Tennessee Williams?	dove	cat	stork	mouse	B	LITERATURE
4	Bodics is the technical term for which sport?	basketball	hockey	turf ball	boxing	B	SPORTS
5	What does the name of the famous painter El Greco mean?	the georgia	the Greek	on Gregorian	the Greenlandic	B	FINE ARTS
6	Who created the law of universal gravitation?	Johannes Kepler	Isaac Newton	Robert Hooke	Janos Bolyai	B	SCIENCE
7	What is called in the vernacular a czobolyo?	brook	drinking vessel	exchange bug	nettle field	B	LANGUAGE
8	Richard Strauss wrote an opera about which biblical female figure?	Queen of Sheba	Judith	Ester	Salome	D	OPERA
9	Which of the following films was not directed by Istvan Szabo?	Father	Age of dreams	Romantic movie	Clown on the wall	D	MOVIE
1	What is made from sorghum?	sorghum	a wig	broom	basket	C	GENERAL
2	What rock did Zoran sing about at the 1969 dance song festival?	high	chimney	variegated	white	D	MUSIC
3	What can the fairy-tale hero Pom Pom amazingly change in the cartoon?	his name	his voice	its shape	his hat	C	MOVIE
4	In the language of thieves, what does the person who gives a statement against his companions do in the police?	it croaks	it sprinkles	he sneezed	cough	D	LANGUAGE
5	Where is the Pere Lachaise cemetery, which houses the graves of many celebrities?	in Brussels	in Liege	in Paris	in Tours	C	COUNTRIES
6	The Vac triumphal arch was made for the visit of which of our rulers?	II. Joseph	Franz Joseph	Maria Theresa	Francis I	C	HISTORY
7	Who directly succeeded Saint Stephen on the throne?	Andras I	Peter Orseolo	Bela I	Saint Laszlo	B	HISTORY
8	Which work is the quote from? "Where have you gone, oh youth of my soul!"	At the end of September	Winter is approaching	I put down the lute	The old gypsy	C	LITERATURE
1	Who is Saint-Exupery's famous work about?	about the little prince	about the little prince	about your little one	about the small entrepreneur	B	LITERATURE
2	What is the name of the champagne aged in the tank?	torpedo champagne	tank champagne	barge champagne	bathtub champagne	B	KITCHEN
3	How many years is a biennale held?	two	twelve	twenty	two hundred	A	LANGUAGE
4	What was the title of Gyorgy Komjathy's radio show in 1965?	Five o'clock tea	Fifth gear	For young people only	Entry only in sneakers	C	GENERAL
5	What does the one who is given a souffle get?	silk nightgown	serenade	inflates	flower basket	C	LANGUAGE
6	Which Hungarian king was also a German-Roman emperor among the following?	Louis the Great	Zsigmond	Matthew Hunyadi	Saint Laszlo	B	HISTORY
7	When does Jim Carrey's The Grinch take place?	at Easter	at carnival time	at Pentecost	at Christmas	D	MOVIE
8	In what form did the ancient Egyptians depict the god Horus?	owl	Falcon	cow	jackal	B	RELIGION
1	Complete the sentence. "Man to man..."	workhorse	for six	vulture	his wolf	D	LANGUAGE
2	The typical checkered skirt, the kilt, is the men's costume of which nation or ethnic group?	bavarian	Ruthenian	Scotsman	on the bottom	C	COUNTRIES
3	Where should a good cottage cheese slider "come out" according to the old hit?	to Visegrad	To Huvosvolgy	to the fair	Old Buda	D	MUSIC
4	Which cat species live freely in Europe?	tiger	Lion	lynx	mongoose	C	BIOLOGY
5	On the shores of which country did the Bay of Pigs conflict take place in 1961?	Vietnam	Mexico	Cuba	Panama	C	HISTORY
6	What did Gyorgy Klapka do in September 1849, after the laying down of arms in Lzak?	he was in prison	He defended the castle of Komarom	he emigrated	organized teams	B	HISTORY
7	Which baroque composer wrote an orchestral suite entitled Water music or Firework music?	JS Bach	Trade	Telemann	Vivaldi	B	OPERA
8	Who is the hitman's target in The Day of the Jackal?	Winston Churchill	Charles de Gaulle	JF Kennedy	Mahatma Gandhi	B	MOVIE
9	In his opening monologue, which Shakespearean hero specifies that he will be a villain?	Macbeth	Hamlet	III. Richard	Prospero	C	LITERATURE
10	What kind of art does a person who works with the Arnolfini couple meet during their studies?	with painting	with literature	with sculpture	with performing arts	A	ART
1	What animal does Little Red Riding Hood meet in the forest?	with a squirrel	with a wolf	with a fox	with groundhog	B	LITERATURE
2	Which holiday is immediately preceded by Advent?	Easter	Christmas	Ash Wednesday	all saints	B	RELIGION
3	Which of the following did the bognar deal with?	tile stoves	barrels	gutters	canvases	B	GENERAL
1	Which of the following is a Hungarian folk dance?	a pub	Czech	an innkeeper	tavern	D	GENERAL
2	On which continent does the kangaroo live?	in Africa	in Australia	in South America	in Asia	B	BIOLOGY
3	What animal is the name of the NBA basketball team in Chicago?	giraffes	seals	elephants	bulls	D	SPORTS
4	What is the nationality of those called Poles in the vernacular?	Slovak	Polish	Austrian	Russian	B	LANGUAGE
5	Which year is in the title of Orwell's world-famous novel?	2001	1793	1984	1516	C	LITERATURE
6	What is Zagreb's river?	Culpa	His word	Mura	Drava	B	GEOGRAPHY
7	King Albert, who ruled the affairs of Hungary in 1437-39, belonged to which royal family?	Habsburg	Jagiellonian	Luxembourgish	Anjou	A	HISTORY
1	What is the title of Akira Kurosawa's world-famous film: "The Week..."	nudity	good mouth	samovar	samurai	D	MOVIE
2	Why does a person even look at the sky in a certain state, according to the saying?	for a zither	for pikul	for a bass player	they confiscate	C	LANGUAGE
3	Who will visit me if my cousin drops by unexpectedly?	my cousin	the executor	my uncle	the tax police	A	GENERAL
4	Which city is the seat of Somogy county?	Szekszard	Somogyvar	Marcali	Kaposvar	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	Which building's dome did Michelangelo design?	Florence Cathedral	St. Paul's Cathedral	St. Peter's Basilica	Pantheon	C	ARCHITECTURE
6	Who is the main character of Mission: Impossible 2?	Tom Hanks	Nicolas Cage	Tom Cruise	Brad Pitt	C	MOVIE
7	According to the Bible, who ordered the murder of the children in Bethlehem?	Pontius Pilate	Herod	A foodie	Emperor Augustus	B	RELIGION
8	Which of the following is honeysuckle?	Mongolian dumplings	shrub type	medieval heads	Asian horse breed	B	LANGUAGE
9	What peace treaty ended the Thirty Years' War?	Vasvari	Vienna	linzi	Westphalian	D	HISTORY
10	What material was the ancient fertility statue, the Venus of Willendorf, made of?	marble	terracotta	limestone	bronze	C	FINE ARTS
1	What "live" separately on dioecious plants?	the leaves and roots	the stamens and fertile flowers	the birds and the bees	the quarreling ladybugs	B	BIOLOGY
2	Who were the main characters of Marton Keleti's highly successful comedy: "A corporal and..."	the wolves	the others	the colonel	the cows	B	MOVIE
3	What is the hobby of someone who likes batik?	field table making	fabric dyeing	flower arrangement	pipe carving	B	LANGUAGE
4	Complete the title of the well-known youth novel. "… and his team"	Mass of Sagittarius	Come on Feri	Timur	Timur Lenk	C	LITERATURE
5	Who "untied" the Gordian knot?	Julius Caesar	Alexander the Great	Hannibal	Spartacus	B	HISTORY
6	According to the titles of Marta Meszaros' films, who didn't make a "diary" for them?	of his loves	his children	his father, mother	to the living	D	MOVIE
7	Benny Goodman was an accomplished artist of which instrument?	saxophone	clarinet	trumpet	wing horn	B	MUSIC
8	How many permanent seats does a vehicle count as a passenger car according to KRESZ?	six	seven	nine	ten	C	GENERAL
9	According to legend, whose relic is the Holy Grail?	Moses	Jesus	Saint Philip	Matthew the Evangelist	B	RELIGION
1	What animal is used in the titles of more than a hundred Walt Disney cartoons?	little pig	leather mouse	puppy	cuckoo drawer	C	MOVIE
2	Which of the following is called a Jumbo Jet?	a type of tanker	the burden-carrying elephant	an aircraft type	a space station	C	TECHNIQUE
3	What plant is the name of the cave in the tale of baby Ali?	tinder	sandalwood	sesame	sisal	C	LITERATURE
4	How does the song continue? "Thank you for loving that..."	never made a mistake	climbed in through the window	it was done, it was not done	he took care of me like that	D	MUSIC
5	What is it called when two individuals of an animal species decide on the priority of one of them without a fight?	pact	bluffing	chuck farthing	posing	D	BIOLOGY
1	Which of the following do you eat?	Nenets	couscous	dum dum	limlom	B	KITCHEN
2	What do we call the medieval knight poets who are mainly famous for their love poetry?	Tuaregs	I'm hunkering down	troubadours	turans	C	LITERATURE
3	The main hero of which film is the Vietnam veteran played by Sylvester Stallone?	Conan the Barbarian	Rocky	Rambo	Forrest Gump	C	MOVIE
4	Which of the following did the ancient Romans use the term biga for?	rowing boat	two-wheeled cart	young maid	polygamous Greek	B	LANGUAGE
5	Where is the terminus of the Trans-Siberian railway from Moscow?	in Saint Petersburg	In Vladivostok	Nahodka	in Novosibirsk	B	COUNTRIES
6	Who was the child of David and Bathsheba?	Saul	Solomon	Adonia	Samuel	B	RELIGION
7	Which American president visited the Berlin Wall in 1963?	John F. Kennedy	Lyndon B. Johnson	Dwight D. Eisenhower	Richard M. Nixon	A	HISTORY
8	Who did not play the "son of a stone-hearted man" in Zoltan Varkonyi's film released in 1965?	Geza Tordy	Tibor Bitskey	Karoly Mecs	Peter Benk	D	MOVIE
1	What kind of skin appears on us when we are cold or scared?	orange skin	goosebumps	rag leather	bacon skin	B	BIOLOGY
2	According to the saying, what does he reap who sows the wind?	breeze	there is a thunderstorm	torrential rain	a storm	D	LANGUAGE
3	According to the title of the comedy, what shoes does the "tall blond man" wear?	snakeskin	stomped	half and half	goose sole insole	C	MOVIE
4	Which garment's name represents a family of fungi?	on my head	pub	footcloth	jackass	B	BIOLOGY
5	Which Hungarian football player was called "Szke Szikla"?	Imret Garaba	Istvan Szke	Kalmant Meszoly	Zoltan Varga	C	SPORTS
6	What is the name of the Queen of the Netherlands?	Margaret	Beatrix	Elizabeth	Christina	B	HISTORY
7	Which Hungarian mathematician can be considered one of the founders of game theory?	Ern Rubik	John Neumann	Janos Bolyai	Bolyai Wolf	B	SCIENCE
8	What is the title of Pasolini's film about the life of Jesus?	Gospel of Mark	Gospel of Luke	Gospel of John	Gospel of Matthew	D	MOVIE
9	Which statement is not true about pelicans?	they live a nocturnal life	some hibernate	predators	their tails are bushy	C	BIOLOGY
1	Which "apple" is the name of a plant?	gradient	grenade	dummy	goof	B	BIOLOGY
2	Who is Hacsek's partner in the well-known cabaret scenes?	Sio	That's it	Taszilo	Cats	B	GENERAL
3	Quartier Latin is a notable student quarter of which city?	Paris	Bologna	London	Heidelberg	A	COUNTRIES
4	Which ace of the Hungarian card shows the symbol of summer?	red	acorn	green	pumpkin	D	GAME
1	What will happen to the ugly duckling in Andersen's fairy tale?	turkey	swan	ostrich	ugly duckling	B	LITERATURE
2	Where did men wear the fusekli?	in their ears	on their feet	on their belt	on their hands	B	GENERAL
3	How is the baguette made?	cookies	they sew	they carve	forged	A	GENERAL
4	Which literary hero makes a pact with Mephisto?	Phaedra	Faust	Rastignac	Raskolnikov	B	LITERATURE
5	Who wrote a book on the origin of species?	Sigmund Freud	Gyula Laszlo	Ivan Petrovich Pavlov	Charles Darwin	D	BIOLOGY
6	What is the motto of the Benedictine order?	Paris is worth a visit!	Ora et labora!	Get up and walk!	Carpe diem!	B	RELIGION
7	How many permanent members are there in the UN Security Council?	4	5	7	9	B	GENERAL
8	Where was the first horror movie about Godzilla made?	in China	in India	in Japan	in France	C	MOVIE
9	Who wrote the Farewell Symphony?	Beethoven	Haydn	Schubert	Mendelssohn	B	OPERA
1	A type of beard is named after which animals?	owl	goat	Lion	seal	B	GENERAL
2	Who did he sing about on the Pa-Do-Do band's 1994 album?	About Janos Szabo	About Lajos Toth	About Jozsef Kovacs	About Bela Kiss	A	MUSIC
3	Which movie is not set in ancient times?	Cleopatra	Ben Hur	Decameron	Spartacus	C	MOVIE
4	What did our ancestors use the trinket for?	for cooking	for lighting	for vision correction	as medicine	C	GENERAL
5	In which country does the musical "Fiddler on the Roof" take place?	in Russia	in France	in Israel	in Poland	A	MUSIC
6	Who is the lady that Cyrano is in love with in Rostand's work?	Virginia	Roxanne	Charlotte	Brigitte	B	LITERATURE
7	Which of the following is a close relative of cattle?	emu	zebu	armadillo	Nandu	B	BIOLOGY
8	Who built the famous Spanish royal palace, the Escorial?	Ferdinand of Aragon	Isabella of Castile	Charles V	II. Philip	D	HISTORY
1	What is the name of a soup noodle?	chirping	chickpea	a pinch	bud	C	KITCHEN
2	Which animal's "milk" is a plant name?	rooster	fish	bloodhound	dog	D	BIOLOGY
3	Which road sign is not circular?	"Roundabout"	"Priority is mandatory"	"Do not enter"	"No stopping"	B	GENERAL
4	"The Englishman Who Went Up the Hill, ..." How does the title of Hugh Grant's film continue?	and stuck there	but he broke his leg	but it came down from a mountain	and got married	C	MOVIE
5	Broadway, famous for its theaters, is located in which city?	Los Angeles	San Francisco	new York	Boston	C	COUNTRIES
6	Which of our kings bears the epithet "kun"?	II. Bela	III. Andrew	ARC. Laszlo	II. Stephen	C	HISTORY
7	Which fictional hero was born by Dezs Kosztolanyi?	Burning Esther	Todor Krisztyan	Kornel Esti	Kazmer Rezeda	C	LITERATURE
8	Which band sang about Rasputin in the 70s?	ABBA	Genghis Khan	Boney M.	Blondie	C	MUSIC
1	What is called a streamer?	river brigade	the price of hot water	creeper	shoemaker's tool	C	LANGUAGE
2	According to the folk song, what wind blows water?	autumn	stormy	spring	Northern	C	LITERATURE
3	Which of the following is tracing paper used for?	to write codes	for insulating house walls	for decorative packaging	for making blueprints	D	GENERAL
4	What does the cook do with the meat when it is cooked?	pickle it	grinds it down	he cuts it	fur	C	KITCHEN
5	What does the musical term requiem mean?	rib	mourning mass	medieval student	Easter round dance	B	OPERA
6	Which party won the 1945 parliamentary elections in Hungary?	Independent Smallholder Party	Hungarian Communist Party	Social Democratic Party	National Peasant Party	A	HISTORY
7	Who was not a member of the Phonograph band?	Mihaly Moricz	Laszlo Tolcsvay	Szabolcs Szorenyi	Zoltan Pasztory	D	MUSIC
1	What does a young student who is taught writing learn?	the letter plowing	spelling	the spelling	the letter casting	C	GENERAL
2	What is the title of Jiri Menzel's film? "Strictly controlled..."	wagons	airport	trains	submarine	C	MOVIE
3	Which plant is grown on plots flooded with water?	barley	corn	rice	rye	C	BIOLOGY
4	Who was the hero of Csokonai's poem who loves money more than anything else?	Pal Pato	Stingy brother	Mr. Shrink	Jano greedy	C	LITERATURE
5	Who or what did the person who was attacked on a trot fight?	with a wolf	with a roadside stand	with a wild boar	with a raiding Turkish army	A	LANGUAGE
6	Where were successful peace negotiations between Egypt and Israel in 1978?	at Camp David	in Cairo	in Paris	in Helsinki	A	HISTORY
7	Who was called an infant woman in the Spanish and Portuguese royal courts?	the king's concubines	the royal princesses	the cooks	the ladies of the court	B	HISTORY
8	From which movie was the musical made with the music of Laszlo Des?	Carousel	somewhere in Europe	The corporal and the others	A foot of land	B	MOVIE
9	Which instrument do the musicians tune to when tuning the band?	flute	violin	clarinet	oboe	D	OPERA
10	Who among the following Hungarian historical figures was the Polish king for ten years?	Gabor Bethlen	Gyorgy Rakoczi	Istvan Bathori	Istvan Bocskai	C	HISTORY
1	Which band does the primate lead?	the gypsy band	the cat band	the fire brigade	dance band	A	OPERA
2	Which animal doesn't have whiskers?	cat	catfish	seal	frog	D	BIOLOGY
3	Who is the term albino used for?	for a thin person	for an organism with skin that lacks pigment	For a person from Albania	mountain dweller	B	LANGUAGE
4	What color are most taxis in New York?	black	red	white	yellow	D	GENERAL
5	Where is a person's sense of balance located?	on the sole	in the spinal column	in the ear	in the frontal cavity	C	BIOLOGY
6	What is the price drop of stock exchange securities called?	knock	length	speak	pass	C	GENERAL
7	On the territory of which present-day country is the "seeded Deva's castle" mentioned in the folk ballad?	Ukraine	Romania	Slovakia	Croatia	B	COUNTRIES
8	Which type of American spacecraft participated in the first international space flight?	Gemini	Challenger	Mercury	Apollo	D	SCIENCE
1	What kind of cake did Kiss Manyi sing about?	chocolate	frothy	cottage cheese	nut	B	GENERAL
2	What was the name of II. suicide Japanese pilots in World War II?	hara-kiri	kamikaze	fujiyama	sushi	B	HISTORY
3	According to the title of one of his poems, what kind of "agricultural worker" will Attila Jozsef be?	tractor	winemaker	agronomist	gardener	D	LITERATURE
4	Who did the firefighters honor as their patron saint?	Saint Rocus	St. Balazs	Saint Florian	Saint George	C	RELIGION
5	In what form did Zeus abduct Europa, the Greek princess?	centaur	rain of gold	lightning	Bull	D	RELIGION
6	How to perform a piece of music with an "adaggio" tempo?	fast	slowly	lively	very strong	B	OPERA
7	What kind of pleasure does a hookah smoker indulge in?	he smokes	he smokes hookah	smokes cigarettes	smokes incense	B	GENERAL
8	Who is farewelled with the following words in world literature? "Good night, prince..."	Theseus	Don Carlos	Hamlet	Orestes	C	LITERATURE
9	Who played Superman's adversary in Richard Donner's blockbuster film?	Danny DeVito	Jack Nicholson	Gene Hackman	Christopher Walken	C	MOVIE
1	Who wanted to roast Jancsi in the well-known fairy tale?	the stepmother	the witch	Julia	the baker	B	LITERATURE
2	What are chicks?	pipe	saddle	instrument	shoemaker's tool	A	LANGUAGE
3	Complete the identity prank question! "Whose son, …?"	his guide	steer	calf	I'm sorry	C	LANGUAGE
4	What is the geometric body whose all points are equidistant from the center?	cube	sphere	rectangle	cylinder	B	SCIENCE
5	What animal is your nun?	kind of squirrel	a large beetle	wood thrush	hare cub	B	BIOLOGY
1	What does he show who reveals his true bad qualities?	the power of the fist	the length of the karma	the teeth are white	the yolk of his bile	C	LANGUAGE
2	What was the name of the inventor Rudolf Diesel?	internal combustion engine type	inflatable tire	steamship type	unicycle	A	TECHNIQUE
3	Which of the following items are made from dongas?	wooden barrel	beckon	carpet	fishing rod	A	TECHNIQUE
4	What part of the month is the month?	the beginning	the end	the middle	the first day of the crescent moon	C	GENERAL
5	Who was not part of the Horn government?	George Keleti	Ferenc Glatz	Lajos Bokros	Laszlo Kovacs	B	HISTORY
6	Antal Reguly was a distinguished representative of which discipline?	linguistics	economics	microbiology	organic chemistry	A	SCIENCE
7	What is butter made of?	from cream	from sour cream	from whey	sleeping milk	A	KITCHEN
8	According to the Bible, who led the Jewish people to the Promised Land after the death of Moses?	Joshua's	Aaron	David	Jacob	A	RELIGION
1	What does the owl say to the sparrow, according to the proverb?	that loud	that big head	that miturass	what a little topszli	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is called tulle?	wind instrument	hummingbird species	text type	women's shoes	C	LANGUAGE
3	What rose did he sing about on the 1969 LP of the band Illes?	autumn	yellow	shit	red	B	MUSIC
4	Which is not the work of Istvan Szechenyi?	Credit	World	Stage	Interest	D	HISTORY
5	Which is not the duty cycle of a four-stroke engine?	suction	compression	exhaust	mixing	D	TECHNIQUE
6	Which of the following birds is in the title of Ibsen's play?	dove	Seagull	wild duck	swan	C	LITERATURE
7	What did the term "great" mean in the old days?	exam work	processing	poor quality	cheap domestic goods	A	LANGUAGE
8	In whose novel is Philip Marlowe the detective?	Erle Stanley Gardner	Edgar Wallace	Dashiel Hammett	Raymond Chandler	D	LITERATURE
9	What did the inhabitants of medieval monasteries do in the dormitory?	they ate	they were sleeping	codex was copied	served their sentence	B	HISTORY
10	In which sport did Ferenc Csík win a gold medal at the 1936 Berlin Olympics?	athletics	swimming	boxing	wrestling	B	SPORTS
1	What submarine is in the title of the cartoon set to the music of the Beatles?	yellow	holey	green	atom	A	MUSIC
2	Who is the female protagonist of the RTL Klub Pasik series?	Rita Jonas	Antonia is strong	Judit Hernadi	Aniko Marsi	C	GENERAL
3	What does the chef cut when slicing mushrooms?	mushroom	turkey	rooster	cancer	A	KITCHEN
4	The old name of which disease is pallor?	smallpox	peptic ulcer	anemia	epilepsy	C	BIOLOGY
5	How many times the bet is the ult if one player calls subcontra?	triple	fourfold	eightfold	sixfold	C	GAME
6	Who was the Hermit of Turin?	Ferenc Deak	Lajos Kossuth	Mikes Clement	Imre Madach	B	HISTORY
7	What is the religion of the Kabyle tribes?	Buddhist	Hindu	Islamic	Persian	C	RELIGION
1	What is the title of Karinthy's well-known collection of literary parodies?	Who wrote this?	That's how you wrote it	And this is how I write	That's how I do it	B	LITERATURE
2	What does someone who plays with marionettes do?	play cards	puppets	barcoch base	dominates	B	GAME
3	What is rizibizi made of?	with beans	with peas	with potatoes	with bananas	B	KITCHEN
4	What is the currency of the United States of America?	cent	to pfennig	piastre	centime	A	COUNTRIES
5	Which dance singer sang about a bunch of bluebells?	Laszlo Aradszky	Peter Matthew	Pal Szecsi	Peter Poor	C	MUSIC
6	Which of the listed countries does not have a rectangular flag?	Morocco	Chile	Nepal	San Marino	C	COUNTRIES
7	Who was the founder of the Church of England?	VIII. Henrik	Tamas Morus	Erasmus of Rotterdam	Elizabeth I	A	HISTORY
8	Who directed the classic film The Big Picture?	Alain Resnais	Jean Renoir	Francois Truffaut	Constantin Costa-Gavras	B	MOVIE
9	Who is the youngest world chess champion of all time?	Karpov	Spassky	Kasparov	Fischer	C	SPORTS
1	What separates lovers in fairy tales? "Spade, hoe, ..."	rooster	big bell	paternal strictness	the operencia sea	B	GENERAL
2	What part of the magpie's body is a plant genus named after?	beak	foot	language	tail	B	BIOLOGY
3	What is the title of Endre Fejes' stage work: "Good evening summer, good..."	good morning, baby!	evening, love!	day, freedom!	good night, youth!	B	LITERATURE
4	On which river is the city of Baja located?	Drava	Tisza	Moros	Danube	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	What was the name of Attila the Hun's brother?	Csaba	Svatopluk	Buddha	Zeta	C	HISTORY
6	With which young ladies did Picasso paint the first major cubist work in 1907?	Seville	from Avignon	from Madrid	Parisian	B	FINE ARTS
7	Who or what was Caligula's Incitatus?	adopted son	his horse	his slave	his killer	B	HISTORY
8	What race is Horses being shot at? the movie?	at a dance competition	at a horse race	on a marathon run	in a car race	A	MOVIE
9	Which Asian country did the Khmer Rouge rule in the 1970s?	Thailand	Cambodia	Vietnam	Laos	B	HISTORY
10	What did Andersen's little mermaid give the sea witch in exchange for legs?	a lock of hair	his voice	its tail fin	his soul	B	LITERATURE
1	According to the folk song, where does the ruca spend?	field grass	deep in the forest	on the basis of poop	under the eaves	C	LITERATURE
2	Twelve what kind of people were in the title of the court film starring Henry Fonda?	defiant	song	angry	dirty	C	MOVIE
3	Which of the following is the name of a cedar species?	from Lesotho	Libyan	Lebanese	Liberian	C	BIOLOGY
4	Whose tomb is located in Eger Castle?	Istvan Tomorkeny	Geza Gardonyi	Sandor Brody	Ferenc Mora	B	LITERATURE
5	In which city is Westminster Abbey located?	Washington	Boston	London	Liverpool	C	COUNTRIES
6	What was the nationality of the medieval reformer Janos Husz?	Czech	French	Prussian	Spanish	A	HISTORY
7	In which of our mountains is the Szeleta cave located?	in Pilis	in Mecsek	in Bukk	in the Stock Exchange	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	What is the name of Peer Gynt's love?	Aase	Holle	Solvejg	Britta	C	LITERATURE
1	What is the title of a legendary film starring Vivien Leigh?	Washed away by the rain	It was swept away by the tornado	gone With the Wind	He was buried by snow	C	MOVIE
2	What animal is the name of the fake news in the newspapers?	goose	duck	goat	frog	B	GENERAL
3	Peter Geszti and Laszlo Des made a musical based on which fairy tale?	Winnie the Pooh	An endless story	Alice in Wonderland	The Jungle Book	D	MUSIC
4	Which of our organs does the electrocardiogram tell us about?	lungs	brain	stomach	heart	D	BIOLOGY
5	What is pomace brandy made of?	of peaches	from a pear	from cherries	from grapes	D	KITCHEN
6	Which singer's albums are "Mucsarnok", "Level novveremek" and "Feher bakas takarodoja"?	Tamas Berki	Tamas Czech	Gjon Delhusa	Jozsef Dinnyes	B	MUSIC
7	What is the name of the female figure representing France?	Isabella	Sophie	Marianne	Valentine	C	COUNTRIES
1	Which one does someone who wants to eat pasta ask for?	Cabbage checker	cabbage slicing	cabbage cutting cvekedlit	Cabbage and zucchini	C	KITCHEN
2	What is the name of Henrik Kemeny's famous puppet?	Warrior Henry	Laszlo Vitez	Grumpy Marci	Hard Kazmer	B	GENERAL
3	What does he collect, whose hobby is philately?	coins	stamps	cacti	medicinal teas	B	LANGUAGE
4	What are the meditation and body exercises of Indian origin called?	karate	yoga	judo	taekwondo	B	GENERAL
5	What operating principle of technical equipment did anyos Jedlik create?	transistor	dynamo	explosive engine	turbine	B	TECHNIQUE
6	In which opera is the aria beginning with "The whole world is for sale" heard?	Leoncavallo: Bayazzo	Gounod: Faust	Bizet: Carmen	Tchaikovsky: Anyegin	B	OPERA
7	The "proud castle" of Krasznahorka is located on the territory of which present-day country?	Slovakia	Ukraine	Romania	Poland	A	COUNTRIES
8	According to the opening lines of the Divine Comedy, where did Dante end up?	to a secluded lakeside	into a dark forest	to a rugged rock face	into a narrow cave	B	LITERATURE
9	Which world-famous athlete won the long jump in four consecutive Olympics?	Bob Beamon	Viktor Sanyeev	Carl Lewis	Jesse Owens	C	SPORTS
1	What do you give to someone who receives a stink bug as a gift?	badger cub	sheep's cheese	plant	spoiled cologne	C	LANGUAGE
2	Which skyscape is not currently named after a railway station in Budapest?	from the east	from the south	from the west	north	D	GENERAL
3	What is the title of Olivia Newton-John's hit musical film?	Hairspray	On Pitrat	Pomade	He's a jerk to death	C	MOVIE
4	Which celestial bodies are made of glowing gases?	the moons	the asteroids	the stars	the black holes	C	SCIENCE
5	Which plant has a pod?	tomato	maize	pea	potato	B	BIOLOGY
6	Where was Gaspar Karoli's complete Bible translation first printed?	Cash register	On Holy Saturday	In Vizsoly	Gyulafehervar	C	HISTORY
7	What is the short name of the readable and rewritable computer database?	RAM	STORE	TFT	CD-ROM	A	GENERAL
8	Who was appointed commander of the Hungarian main army in March 1849?	Lajos Kossuth	Lazarus the Butcher	Artur Gorgey	Bem Jozsefet	C	HISTORY
9	Who does Paris give Erisz's golden apple as the judge of the mythological beauty contest?	Aphrodite's	Pallas to Athena	To Hera	To Helena	A	RELIGION
10	Who scored the winning golden goal at the 2000 European Football Championship?	Henry	Wiltord	Dugarry	Trezeguel	D	SPORTS
11	Antonio de Oliveira Salazar was the dictator of which country?	Mexico	Argentina	Panama	Portugal	D	HISTORY
1	What kind of branch does the successful person fall into?	birdhouse	abundant fruit	green	ratio	C	GENERAL
2	How much is "2X2" in the title of the popular Hungarian film?	always four	sometimes five	sometimes six	one	B	MOVIE
3	What material is the lathe?	hardwood	post	calfskin	wire	B	GENERAL
4	To whom did Tatjana write her famous letter?	For Anyegin	To Pushkin	To Lenski	II. To Tsar Nicholas	A	LITERATURE
5	According to legend, which emperor set Rome on fire?	Caligula	Nero	Claudius	Tiberius	B	HISTORY
6	What is the abbreviation for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations?	WWF	FAO	UNESCO	WHO	B	GENERAL
7	Which Hungarian rock band sang about Route 67?	Pyramid	Edda	Omega	Republic	D	MUSIC
8	In which European country do they judge based on precedent law?	France	Italy	The Netherlands	Great Britain	D	COUNTRIES
9	In which club did Krisztina Egerszegi swim?	Bp. in Spartacus	Bp. Honved	in the Doge of ujpest	OTP-Sport Plus in SE	A	SPORTS
10	Which of the following is characteristic of a person suffering from arachnophobia?	from the birds	from the height	from spiders	from closed spaces	C	LANGUAGE
11	Where is the Sea of Perils?	At Cape Horn	Between Borneo and Sumatra	At the Hebrides	On the moon	D	GEOGRAPHY
1	According to the saying, what does someone who gives something up throw in?	the bet	the towel	the key	the hatchet	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following was called an ornamental Hungarian?	the noble diploma	the parliamentary representative	the noble dress	the mayor of the county	C	GENERAL
3	Where did the adventurous seek Eldorado, famous for its fabulous wealth?	In Alaska	in India	in South America	In inner Africa	C	HISTORY
4	What day of the week did Rezs Seress write a "sad" song in the 1930s?	about Saturday	about Sunday	about Monday	from Wednesday	B	MUSIC
5	Where did Attila Jozsef die?	in Balatonfured	in Balatonszabadi	Balatonszeplakon	Balatonszarszon	D	LITERATURE
6	Who was the legendary wife of King Arthur?	Isolde	To Guinevere	Freya	Brunnhilda	B	HISTORY
7	Szvatopluk, known from legends, was the leader of which nation?	fall in	Bulgarian	Khazar	Moravian	D	HISTORY
8	Who wrote the opera about Salome?	Verdi	Wagner	Richard Strauss	Rimsky-Korsakov	C	OPERA
9	In which castle can you see the Red Tower?	in the Sarospatak castle	in the castle of Siklos	in the castle of Eger	in Buda Castle	A	HUNGARY
10	Who hasn't won an Oscar for best director?	Alfred Hitchcock	Victor Fleming	Billy Wilder	Milos Forman	A	MOVIE
11	Who among the following was the famous writer George Sand's known lover?	Frederic Chopin	Jr. Alexandre Dumas	Victor Hugo	Hector Berlioz	A	LITERATURE
12	Which country does ice hockey originate from?	From Sweden	from the United States	From Canada	From Finland	C	SPORTS
1	According to the saying, what does he build on something uncertain?	to water	on glass	on sand	on paper	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is Pinocchio made of?	made of steel	of rags	made of wood	of bronze	C	LITERATURE
3	The Securitate was the infamous secret service of which country?	Bulgaria	Romania	Albania	GDR	B	HISTORY
4	What is the game called tarokk played with?	with a card	with dice	with dominoes	with a chess piece	A	GAME
5	Mussorgsky wrote an opera about which Russian tsar?	About Peter the Great	About Boris Godunov	About Miklos I	She was terrified of Ivan	B	OPERA
6	Which of the following counties does not border Lake Balaton?	Fejer county	Somogy County	Zala county	Veszprem County	A	GEOGRAPHY
1	What is the name of a type of food?	blown off	blew out	blown away	inflated	D	KITCHEN
2	How many are the wicked, according to the saying?	seven	ten	twelve	forty of us	A	LANGUAGE
3	Which sports are contested in Pashtun?	wrestling	fencing	boxing	judo	B	SPORTS
4	Which of the following is associated with Louis Braille's name?	the electrocardiograph	Braille writing	the great french revolution	the Internet	B	GENERAL
5	Tibet is located on the territory of which present-day state?	China	Mongolia	India	Cambodia	A	COUNTRIES
6	Who is the quote from? "Now I'm dreaming of colored inks..."	Beautiful Ern	Jen Heltai	Dezs Kosztolanyi	Zoltan Zelk	C	LITERATURE
7	What did the soldiers call kepi?	payroll	shirt	bayonet	his cap	D	LANGUAGE
8	Which word is spelled incorrectly?	rolling hills	taste-moves	very little	it's exciting	C	LANGUAGE
9	Who wrote the three symphonic sketches entitled "The Sea"?	Saint-Saens	Debussy	Ravel	Berlioz	B	OPERA
1	What does a mustache look like?	he's a jackass	cheesy	he's crazy	bagel stalker	B	GENERAL
2	What is the end of the saying no?	whine	whining	groan	preoccupation	C	LANGUAGE
3	What kind of bird statue were they looking for in the crime film based on Dashiel Hammett's novel?	Danish griffon vulture	Maltese Falcon	Cretan albatross	Kenyan cockatoo	B	MOVIE
4	What old Hungarian unit of measure was the rf?	volume unit	measure of length	area measure	mass unit	B	GENERAL
5	In what language was the life work of Janus Pannonius written?	in German	in Latin	in Greek	in Hungarian	B	LITERATURE
6	What does the word cívis mean in the expression cívisvaros?	field	fair	citizen	faithful	C	LANGUAGE
7	Saint Petersburg is located at the mouth of which river?	Lena	Name	Volga	Jenyiszej	B	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which one was called a wine watcher in the Middle Ages?	the inspector of the wine measurement	the hoofed knights	the pub	the wine barrel	A	LANGUAGE
9	Which movie did Marlon Brando not star in?	Tram of desire	Lion cubs	Superman	Batman	D	MOVIE
10	Where were the second modern Olympic Games held?	Amsterdam	London	St. Louis	Paris	D	SPORTS
1	What does Snow White's stepmother ask the mirror?	What does the glass one look like?	Are the crow's feet visible?	Should I use foundation?	Who is the most beautiful in the countryside?	D	LITERATURE
2	What is the muff used to keep warm?	foot	hand	ear	nose	B	GENERAL
3	Whose portrait can be seen on the new 20,000 banknote?	Lajos Kossuth	Ferenc Deak	Ferenc Kolcsey	St. Stephen	B	GENERAL
4	Which ruined castle did Ferenc Kolcsey write immortal lines about?	It's gross	Szendr	Hust	Gliding	C	LITERATURE
5	Who was the American continent named after?	about a Spanish sailor	about a viking sailor	about an English shipbuilder	about an Italian explorer	D	HISTORY
6	Which word is both the name of a candy and the name of a plant?	zinkapanna	badger castle	boob wine	freckle barbie	B	LANGUAGE
7	Who received the most Hungarian Olympic gold medals?	Aladar Gerevich	Rudolph of Carpathia	Pal Kovacs	Krisztina Egerszeg	A	SPORTS
8	The Treaty of Verdun in 843 was an important stage in the disintegration of which empire?	Roman Empire	Frankish Empire	Hun Empire	Avar Empire	B	HISTORY
9	Where is the lamp museum in Hungary?	Moorish	Dad	Szambek	Sopron	C	HUNGARY
10	Why are the two protagonists of the movie Gentle Bikers arrested?	for speeding	for public alcohol consumption	for drug use	for marching without permission	D	MOVIE
1	According to the saying, what broke the one who bursts into tears?	the base of the rose	the candlestick	the horseshoe	the cardan shaft	B	LANGUAGE
2	Why are the "looters" in the title of Steven Spielberg's film?	the sunken Atlantis	the lost city of gold	Manhattan	the lost ark	D	MOVIE
3	What is not needed to make Wiener schnitzel?	for eggs	on breadcrumbs	on semolina	to flour	C	KITCHEN
4	Who won the Formula 1 world championship in 2000?	David Coulthard	Mika Hakkinen	Ralf Schumacher	Michael Schumacher	D	SPORTS
5	Which ministerial portfolio did you receive in 1998?	family matter	a matter of justice	internal affairs	healthcare	B	HISTORY
6	What is the first element of the periodic table?	helium	hydrogen	Skin	oxygen	B	SCIENCE
7	Thor Heyerdahl attempted to cross the Atlantic Ocean on what boat was he made of?	bamboo	ebony	papyrus	corkwood	C	HISTORY
8	What is the commonly known abbreviation of the Social Democratic Party of Germany?	SPD	FDP	CDU	NDPD	A	HISTORY
9	Which of the following Verdi operas is not based on a Shakespeare play?	Othello	Macbeth	Don Carlos	Falstaff	C	OPERA
10	Which of our great travelers wrote the etymological dictionary of the Turkish-Tatar languages?	armin Vambery	Oops Ferenc	Sandor Csoma Krosi	Gyula Germanus	A	LANGUAGE
11	Which country's national team won the Sydney Olympics football tournament?	Chile	Cameroon	Spain	Nigeria	B	SPORTS
12	Which ancient Greek philosopher was the tutor of Alexander the Great of Macedonia?	Archimedes	Plato	Aristotle	Diogenes	C	HISTORY
13	Who didn't play the role of Fletcher Christian in the film adaptations of the novel The Bounty?	Clark Gable	James Stewart	Marlon Brando	Mel Gibson	B	MOVIE
14	Which of the following plants is deciduous?	cedar of Lebanon	larch	Douglas fir	atlas cedar	B	BIOLOGY
1	What is the name of the prisoner transport car?	police car	slave mobile	outlaw moped	prisoner hero	B	GENERAL
2	What is the heart of someone who is insensitive?	of iron	made of wood	of bone	of stone	D	LANGUAGE
3	Which word refers to a type of radish?	glacial acetic acid	ice groats	icicle	fire hydrant	C	KITCHEN
4	What is its colloquial name?	grammar	rhetoric	esoterica	gymnastics	B	LANGUAGE
5	With what title did Neil Simon not write a play?	Barefoot in the park	An odd couple	The Sunbeam boys	The minister steps aside	D	LITERATURE
6	What is the fat hat made of?	straw	calfskin	post	rabbit fur	A	GENERAL
1	Which is an agricultural harvest job?	oat tipping	carrot crushing	melon punching	breaking corn	D	GENERAL
2	What is the nickname of our professional boxer Istvan Kovacs?	Boxer	Goldsmith	Lightning Fist	Koko	D	SPORTS
3	Which raw material cannot be made without?	cottage cheese	sausage	tomato	carrot	A	KITCHEN
4	Whose work was Attila Dargay's cartoon Ludas Matyi based on?	Sandor Petofi	Golden John	Mihaly Vitez Csokonai	Mihaly Fezekas	D	LITERATURE
5	In which city is Puccini's opera Bohemelet set?	in Rome	in Newyork	In Venice	in Paris	D	OPERA
6	On whose donation was the National Museum founded?	Ferenc Kazinczy	Ignac Martinovics	Ferenc Szechenyi	Istvan Szechenyi	C	HISTORY
7	Who is the English poet who lost his life in the Greek War of Independence?	Byron	Shelley	Milton	Coleridge	A	HISTORY
8	In which rock band did akos start his singing career?	Amok runners	Bonanza Banzai	Animal Cannibals	First floor	B	MUSIC
9	Who was the politician who declared the independence of Bangladesh in 1971?	Deszai Morardzi	Ziaur Rahman	Mahmoud Ullah	Mujibur Rahman	D	HISTORY
10	What nationality referee blew the whistle in the 2000 European Football Championship final?	Danish	Scotsman	Swedish	Austrian	C	SPORTS
1	What is the name of a chess move?	camel trotting	horse jumping	cut a pig	snail's pace	B	GAME
2	What is amethyst?	military rank	semi-precious stone	percussion instrument	type of textile	B	LANGUAGE
3	According to the Hungarian folk song, which bird flew to the county house?	gerle	thrush	peacock	Falcon	C	LITERATURE
4	Which of our great poets was the love of Adel Brull?	Attila Jozsef	Mihaly Babits	Dezs Kosztolanyi	Endre Ady	D	LITERATURE
5	Who among the following artists is not an opera singer?	Janos Berkes	Jozsef Gregor	Sandor Szokolay	Denes Gulyas	C	OPERA
6	What invention did John Dunlop install on his son's bicycle?	rear view mirror	counter brake	inflatable tires	solid rubber wheels	C	TECHNIQUE
7	Where do the Hottentots live?	in East Asia	in South Africa	in North America	in central Australia	B	COUNTRIES
8	What ministerial portfolio did Istvan Nagyatadi Szabo hold for several years?	foreign affairs	education matter	agricultural matter	finance	C	HISTORY
9	In which city can the Paloc Museum be viewed?	in Salgotarjan	in Eger	Balassa colony	Pashto	C	HUNGARY
1	What is the name of a road sign?	opening line	closing line	closing line	line of fire	C	GENERAL
2	According to the saying, what does the poor man cook?	with rice	with water	with knocking eyes	with a dirty dish	B	LANGUAGE
3	Carl Maria von Weber wrote an opera about which hunter?	skirt	head	magic	Lion	C	OPERA
4	Who is a guerrilla?	tribal wizard	animal trainer	armed insurgent	money carrier	C	GENERAL
5	Who was the leader of the new Hungarian government established in 1990?	Jozsef Antall	Miklos Nemeth	Peter Boross	Ferenc Madl	A	HISTORY
6	Which city is the namesake of the French national anthem?	Rouen	Marseilles	Lyon	Bordeaux	B	LITERATURE
7	What is the title of Salinger's world-famous novel?	Wheat grinder	Potato picker	Oat grinder	Sea peeler	C	LITERATURE
8	Who was the father of Transylvanian prince Janos Zsigmond?	Ferdinand I	Janos Szapolyai	Istvan Werbczy	George Martinuzzi	B	HISTORY
9	Which singer achieved his first major acting success in the film The Wages of Fear?	Charles Aznavour	Frank Sinatra	Elvis Presley	Yves Montand	D	MOVIE
10	In which of the following countries is the dinar the official currency?	Algeria	Arab Emirates	Chad	Qatar	A	COUNTRIES
1	What kind of scone is the basis of folk tales?	boiled in milk	snappy	burned to coal	baked in ashes	D	LITERATURE
2	What animal is Dolly, the first mammal cloned from a body cell?	goat	sheep	cattle	Shoot	B	BIOLOGY
3	What is the fryer used for?	for baking	for hair drying	for freezing	for serving	A	TECHNIQUE
4	Which group sang: "The mind is important, not the hair"?	Bergendy	Elijah	Omega	Hungary	B	MUSIC
5	In which of the following films did Mari Torcsik play for the first time?	Sweet Anna	Kid	Carousel	Iron flower	C	MOVIE
6	Who is the protagonist of Dezs Kosztolanyi's novel The Golden Dragon?	a teacher	a poet	a maid	a painter	A	LITERATURE
1	What does someone who is given a praline get?	perfume	liquor	sweets	rash	C	LANGUAGE
2	What were the little children jokingly called?	green mouth	sour cream	back buttoned	front clasp	C	LANGUAGE
3	In which field of art did Janos Ferencsik become known?	architecture	music	painting	poetry	B	ART
4	What is the title of the comedy by Louis de Funes: "An angler in the ..."	in hay	in marinade	in a bag	in the mouth	B	MOVIE
5	What is the abbreviation of the economic term "gross domestic product"?	NDP	GNP	GDP	NGP	C	GENERAL
6	Which of the following is not a Mozart opera?	Cosi fan tutte	The Barber of Seville	Don Giovanni	The magic flute	B	OPERA
7	Archbishop Makariosz was the president of which country from 1960?	Greece	Philippines	Cyprus	Mexico	C	HISTORY
8	In which of our counties can you see the ruins of Sumegi Castle?	Veszprem	Head	Komarom-Esztergom	Gyr-Moson-Sopron	A	HUNGARY
9	In what architectural style was the Budapest Fisherman's Bastion built?	neo-gothic	Baroque	Neo-Romanian	classicist	C	ARCHITECTURE
10	Where was the famous spy Mata Hari born?	in India	in the Netherlands	in Sweden	on the island of Java	B	HISTORY
1	How does Sleeping Beauty wake up in the fairy tale?	with music	with a kiss	with the smell of hot coffee	a bucket of water	B	LITERATURE
2	What is the regularly repeated rise in sea level called?	ebb	flooding	high tide	drought	C	GEOGRAPHY
3	Which Dutchman did Wagner write an opera about?	wooden shoes	got lost	tulip	planet	D	OPERA
4	What does the chef do with the meat when he bakes it?	fastens it	fur	slices it	grinds it down	A	KITCHEN
5	Continue the title of the Ady poem! "Paris, my..."	My church	Hortobagy	Bucky	My purse	C	LITERATURE
6	On which continent did Kalman Kittenberger, the famous traveler, do his research?	South America	East Asia	Africa	Antarctica	C	HISTORY
7	Who developed roll film?	Everett MacAdam	George Eastman	Paul Nipkow	Percival Everitt	B	TECHNIQUE
8	How many times has the Hungarian national football team won the Olympic championship?	twice	three times	four times	not even once	B	SPORTS
9	Which country was ruled by members of the Somoza family for more than sixty years?	Nicaragua	Panama	Argentina	Uruguay	A	HISTORY
10	The ancient landmark, Hadrian's Wall, was built on the territory of which present-day country?	Italy	Greece	England	Egypt	C	HISTORY
11	Which metal has the best thermal and electrical conductivity?	ratio	copper	silver	zinc	C	SCIENCE
1	What is the name of the chair that slides on the ice on small ploughs, driven by sticks?	iron cat	copper cow	lead rabbit	wooden dog	D	GENERAL
2	Which of the following is the name of fodder beet?	pork turnip	beef carrot	goat's carrot	turnip	B	GENERAL
3	What can be made of alabaster?	royal mantle	cutlery	furniture	statue	D	GENERAL
4	In which sport did Erzsebet Markus win a silver medal at the Sydney Olympics?	in sport shooting	in juggling	in weightlifting	in fencing	C	SPORTS
5	Who is the author of the novel The Singing Dog?	Charles Dickens	Mark Twain	Oscar Wilde	Jack London	D	LITERATURE
6	In which Verdi opera is the romance of Radames performed?	Traviata	Don Carlos	Rigoletto	Aida	D	OPERA
7	Which season does not appear in Gyula Juhasz's poem that starts with ...?	winter	spring	summer	fall	A	LITERATURE
8	Which river flows through the Grand Canyon?	Rio Grande	Ohio	Mississippi	Colorado	D	GEOGRAPHY
1	How long do people who drink a lot of alcohol drink themselves, according to the saying?	until the avar	to the puddle	to the yellow earth	to the mole pass	C	LANGUAGE
2	Who were called "Priests of Thalia"?	the gardeners	the actors	the meteorologists	the doctors	B	GENERAL
3	Which part of our organ is the worm?	pharyngeal tonsil	appendix	step	duodenum	B	BIOLOGY
4	Which of the following is the name of a food?	fried goose feather	stuffed goose neck	fried goose beak	pulled goose ears	B	KITCHEN
5	Old Bohemia is part of the territory of which present-day country?	France	Czech Republic	Italy	Spain	B	HISTORY
6	Which detective did Humphrey Bogart play in The Maltese Falcon?	Sherlock Holmes	Hercule Poirot	Sam Spade	Inspector Maigret	C	MOVIE
7	According to the Bible, Samson killed a thousand Philistines with the jaws of what animal?	goat	donkey	Lion	calf	B	RELIGION
8	Which of the following is not a Swiss city?	Lausanne	Lucerne	Leiden	Locarno	C	GEOGRAPHY
9	Who was the president of the United States during the Gulf War?	Ronald Reagan	George Bush	Bill Clinton	Jimmy Carter	B	HISTORY
10	Who named the SI unit of magnetic induction?	Becquerel	Siemens	Faraday	Tesla	D	SCIENCE
1	What kitchen appliance is in the title of Tchaikovsky's world-famous ballet?	meat grinder	poppy seed grinder	rolling pin	nut-cracker	D	ART
2	What does someone who buys a cape spend their money on?	for small rodents	on clothes	brush	decorative sword	B	LANGUAGE
3	Which fruit has berries?	Apple	solo	plum	melon	B	BIOLOGY
4	Which country won the most gold medals at the Sydney Olympics?	Australia	Russia	USA	China	C	SPORTS
5	To which country does the island of Corsica belong?	to Italy	to France	to Portugal	to Greece	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	What does the science of ethology deal with?	with children's nutrition	with the behavior of animals	with library systematization	with Central African folk music	B	SCIENCE
7	What characterizes the economy of a state in each case during a recession?	relapse	fast catch up	stable finances	booming stock market	A	GENERAL
8	Who is the author of the well-known novel The Legend of Rabbit Paprika?	J. Jen Tersanszky	Gyula Krudy	John Updike	Joseph Heller	A	LITERATURE
9	Which continent is the raccoon native to?	Africa	Asia	America	Australia	C	BIOLOGY
10	What is the title of Sandor Petfi's only surviving novel?	Green Marci	The apostle	Hangman's rope	Tiger and hyena	C	LITERATURE
1	What does the popular saying call something that is left for free?	Buzsak's hay	Csaki's straw	Canvas of Mrs. Dean	Crumbs for dog's dinner	B	LANGUAGE
2	According to the folk song, which tavern does the cymbal player go to play the cymbal with the cymbal?	csengeri	Hortobagyi	hooking	bodajki	C	LITERATURE
3	Eger is the seat of which county?	Tolna	Nograd	Csongrad	Fierce	D	GEOGRAPHY
4	What kind of birds are loris?	hummingbird	parrots	pigeons	seagulls	B	BIOLOGY
5	Which of the listed European states is not a republic?	Slovenia	Portugal	The Netherlands	Ireland	C	COUNTRIES
6	How many wheels did Carl Benz's first vehicle with a gasoline engine have?	two	three	four	six	B	TECHNIQUE
7	Who is the Sopron theater named after?	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Sandor Petofi	Golden John	Imre Madach	B	THEATER
8	What nationality was Celsius, the creator of the temperature scale we also use?	Swedish	German	Dutch	Danish	A	SCIENCE
9	Who was leader Lehel's companion in the failed Augsburg battle?	Uncle	In trouble	Bulcsu	Bereny	C	HISTORY
10	Which American movie star was born in the former East Germany?	Bruce Willis	Arnold Schwarzenegger	Leonardo DiCaprio	Marlon Brando	A	MOVIE
1	What is another name for a university textbook?	code	index	telex	matrix	B	GENERAL
2	Which French woman became famous as a fashion designer?	Marguerite Duras	Françoise Sagan	Coco Chanel	Edith Piaf	C	GENERAL
3	Who was the king of Ithaca according to Homer?	Patroclus	Tantalus	Adonis	Odysseus	D	LITERATURE
4	Which animal does the vernacular call a goblin?	fall fly	fattened ox	male freshman	little goat	B	LANGUAGE
1	What fairy-tale piece of clothing is "seven miles"?	pants	boots	hat	fur coat	B	GENERAL
2	One of the cruel customs of which ancient city-state is associated with Mount Taygetus?	Sparta	Athens	Syracuse	Thebes	A	HISTORY
3	How do we write the following expression correctly?	chess club	chess club	chess club	chess club	C	LANGUAGE
4	What animals did Nils Holgersson travel with?	with swallows	with seagulls	with vultures	with geese	D	LITERATURE
5	Which of the following countries does not have the color white in its flag?	Belgium	The Netherlands	France	Finland	A	COUNTRIES
6	Who is currently the parliamentary commissioner for civil rights in Hungary?	Peter Polt	Katalin Gonczol	Peter Harrach	Laszlo Solyom	B	GENERAL
7	Marc Chagall, the painter who lived in France, was born in which country?	Germany	Switzerland	Poland	Russia	D	FINE ARTS
1	According to the saying, what do we make of someone who allows himself to be misled?	ass	into a mule	into a sheep	into a horse	D	LANGUAGE
2	What wild animal does Toldi restrain with his bare hands on the streets of Pest?	horse	bull	a bear	a dog	B	LITERATURE
3	Which of the following chess pieces is the least common in a chess set?	on foot	from running	from a bastion	from leader	D	GAME
4	What is a quasar?	quartz rock	stellar radio source	Albanian market	extinct wild horse	B	LANGUAGE
5	Where did the holy family flee from the child murders in Bethlehem?	to Syria	To Mesopotamia	to Babylon	To Egypt	D	RELIGION
6	The music of which operetta was composed by Johann Strauss the Younger?	The gypsy primate	Count of Luxembourg	The Gypsy Baron	Baroness Lili	C	OPERA
7	In which year was the Rajk trial held in Hungary?	in 1946	in 1948	in 1949	in 1953	C	HISTORY
1	Who deals with the finishing of animal skins?	the colander	the tanner	the goldsmith	the beautician	B	GENERAL
2	What kind of soul do we call a profoundly deceitful person?	wolf	carvallo	fox	dove	C	LANGUAGE
3	What kind of art is Luciano Pavarotti a representative of?	film director	opera singer	ballet dancer	cubist painter	B	ART
4	Which team sport is played with an egg-shaped ball?	basketball	riding shirt	rugby	turf ball	C	SPORTS
5	Which band sang "Everybody Does It Differently"?	Phonograph	Pyramid	Scorpio	Locomotive GT	D	MUSIC
6	According to Batsanyi's words, which city should you cast your watchful eye on?	To Moscow	To Vienna	to Paris	to Berlin	C	LITERATURE
7	What is another name for carburetor?	generator	dynamo	transformer	nebulizer	D	TECHNIQUE
8	What mythological creatures is the order of sea cows named after?	valkyries	siren	heras	weeks	B	BIOLOGY
9	Who wrote a symphony with the adjectives "The bear" and "The hen"?	Beethoven	Tchaikovsky	Haydn	Brahms	C	OPERA
1	What is the name of a famous Hungarian dish?	hunting juice	bird juice	fish soup	hemp juice	C	KITCHEN
2	Where, according to the saying, do those who collaborate in something, who assume complicity, sell?	at a horse fair	on a mat	on a counter	in a doorway	B	LANGUAGE
3	What trap is Joseph Heller's novel about?	the 007	the 22nd	the 111	the 424	B	LITERATURE
4	Which port city is not located on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea?	Marseilles	Calais	Haifa	Tripoli	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	The two main schools of which religion are Sunni and Shia?	Christianity	Buddhism	Hinduism	Islamic	D	RELIGION
6	Which of the listed countries is a member of NATO?	Luxembourg	Switzerland	Sweden	Cyprus	A	COUNTRIES
7	What was a slave called in ancient Sparta?	ephorus	perioikos	Georgia	helot	D	HISTORY
8	Based on whose novel did Verdi write his opera Traviata?	Victor Hugo	Jr. Alexandre Dumas	ETA Hoffmann	Walter Scott	B	OPERA
9	Who is the youngest member of the former Beatles?	Paul McCartney	George Harrison	John Lennon	Ringo Starr	B	MUSIC
1	What kind of eyes does a sharp-sighted person have?	eagle	puppet	sphere	hen	A	LANGUAGE
2	Whose well-known writing pseudonym is P. Howard?	Antal Serb	Jen Rejt	Jen Heltai	Frigyes Karinthy	B	LITERATURE
3	Which of the following foods is the basic ingredient of szekelygulyas?	steamed cauliflower	pickled cucumber	planed pumpkin	sour cabbage	D	KITCHEN
4	What is the title of Magda Szabo's well-known work set in a girls' school?	Alexandra	Anna	Abigail	Abyss	C	LITERATURE
5	What is the name of the group organized around Ignac Martinovics?	Hungarian royalists	Hungarian Girondists	Hungarian sans-culottes	Hungarian Jacobins	D	HISTORY
6	What color gemstone is sapphire?	green	yellow	blue	red	C	GENERAL
7	In which of our mountains can we climb the mountain called Istallos-k?	in Bukk	in Bakony	in the Kszegi Mountains	in the Zempleni Mountains	A	GEOGRAPHY
8	What nationality was the composer Edvard Grieg?	Swedish	German	Norwegian	Dutch	C	OPERA
9	According to KRESZ, in which cases is it allowed to stop with a car?	without payment at the parking meter	in an invisible bend in the road	at the tunnel exit	at a designated pedestrian crossing	A	GENERAL
10	Which famous film was made by a non-Hungarian director?	Casablanca	VIII. Henrik's private life	Lady Hamilton	Irma, you sweetie	D	MOVIE
11	In which branch of sports shooting did Karoly Takacs win two Olympic gold medals?	rapid fire pistol	air gun	sporting pistol	small rifle, complex	A	SPORTS
12	Who was Rembrandt's model in the last years of his life?	Cybille	Saskia	Hendrick's	Kirsten	C	ART
1	What does Kukorica Jancsi throw into the Fairyland lake?	a stone	a giant	a goldfish	a rose	D	LITERATURE
2	Which food is the basic ingredient of stir-fry?	rice	flour	breadcrumbs	semolina	B	KITCHEN
3	What is the shape of the "STOP! Give way is mandatory" sign?	triangle	square	circle	octagon	D	GENERAL
1	According to the saying, which weather phenomenon can have its legs dangling?	to the fog	to the rain	to the crusher	to the thunder	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is the appetite of a person who is very hungry?	fox	wolf	bear	tiger	B	LANGUAGE
3	What does the believer of Islam face when he prepares for Ramadan?	holy war	fasting month	ritual suicide	wedding feast	B	RELIGION
4	Who is Balga's love interest in Csongor and Tunde?	Vilma	Irma	Illa	Hilda	C	LITERATURE
5	Which period is in the title of one of the songs of the band Edda?	square	triangle	circle	rectangle	C	MUSIC
6	Who is the current Secretary General of the UN?	Gali Butrosz	Kofi Annan	Javier Solana	Bill Clinton	B	GENERAL
7	Yerevan is the capital of which country?	Georgia	Kazakhstan	Armenia	Azerbaijan	C	COUNTRIES
8	Who was Emperor Nero's famous tutor?	Seneca	Cicero	Ovid	Cato	A	HISTORY
9	In how many movies did Sylvester Stallone portray Rocky Balboa?	one	three	five	nine	C	MOVIE
10	What was the family name of Gyula Juhasz's muse, Anna?	Sarkandy	He waits	Losonczi	Sarvar	D	LITERATURE
1	What "waist" is a very slim female waist called?	mosquito	flea	wasp	tick	C	LANGUAGE
2	How many squares does a chessboard consist of?	thirty-six	Fourty nine	sixty four	eightyone	C	GAME
3	Which is not the name of an angle function?	tangent	cosine	syncope	sine	C	SCIENCE
4	What is the Roman name for the goat-shaped, human-like demigod?	fate	you are tired	faun	faust	C	RELIGION
5	What hits the boater in the head when he gets caught by the boom?	the government	a sail pole	a crashing wave	the cabin door	B	GENERAL
6	Bela Nyul is the protagonist of which Hungarian film?	Teacher Hannibal	Old time football	The witness	The three bodyguards in Africa	A	MOVIE
7	Which of the following is one of the ingredients of Caesar's crumble?	breadcrumbs	flour	barley pearl	rice	B	KITCHEN
8	Who is the Hungarian sportswoman who won the II. Did he win an Olympic gold medal before and after World War II?	agnes Keleti	Colonial Olga	Mrs Ibolya Csak Kadar	Elek Ilona	D	SPORTS
9	In what year was Israel founded?	in 1948	in 1954	in 1949	in 1946	A	HISTORY
10	Which of the following is not part of Moricz's Transylvania trilogy?	Lover of the sun	Fairy garden	The great prince	The shadow of the sun	A	LITERATURE
11	What did the ancient Sumerians call the "house of the tablet"?	court	school	restaurant	bath	B	HISTORY
1	What does a rejected applicant get?	bag	batty	basket	drinks	C	GENERAL
2	How does the title of Mihaly Eisemann's well-known operetta continue? "Me and the ..."	my grandmother	my little brother	my godmother	my sister-in-law	B	OPERA
3	What is the floor plan of the Leaning Tower of Pisa?	hexagon	circle	square	trapeze	B	ARCHITECTURE
4	In which of the following locations can we meet a yak?	on the prairie	in Tibet	in the Amazon	in the southern arctic	B	BIOLOGY
5	The Bolshoi Theater, founded in 1776, is the theater of which city?	 St. Petersburg	Moscow	Kyiv	Sofia	B	THEATER
6	The fur of which animal is the fur of the fur?	marten	weasel	seal	fox	C	BIOLOGY
7	What does the Greek term mean? "Panta rhei."	Life is finite	Everything is still	Everything is going on	Power distorts	C	LANGUAGE
8	Southern Rhodesia was the former name of which African country?	Namibia	Burkina Faso	Zimbabwe	Zambia	C	COUNTRIES
9	In which opera does Plumkett sing "brew"?	Weber: The Magical Hunter	Lortzing: The Gunsmith	Beethoven: Fidelio	Flotow: Marta	D	OPERA
1	What is the name of Istvan Csukas' famous dragon?	Oriza Triznyak	Pompom	Push him	Suşu	D	LITERATURE
2	What treaty was the military bloc formed by the Soviet Union and its allies called?	Moscow	Prague	Warsaw	Sofia	C	HISTORY
3	What was Louis Daguerre a pioneer of?	flight	space exploration	photography	steam engine manufacturing	C	TECHNIQUE
4	Who was the 1968 Who Knows What? the parodist winner of your contest?	Zoltan Maksa	Janos Galvolgyi	George Markos	Andras Kern	B	GENERAL
5	What does the name of Beijing's Tiananmen Square mean in Hungarian?	blessed ancestors	heavenly peace	truth and glory	shining gods	B	LANGUAGE
6	What title did Honore de Balzac give to the series of novels containing his entire oeuvre?	In pursuit of lost time	The Tragedy of Man	Divine play	Human drama	D	LITERATURE
7	Which country's currency is a brand among the following?	Estonia	Finland	Latvia	Sweden	B	COUNTRIES
8	Which band played the title song of the movie "The Kangaroo"?	Locomotive GT	Gemini	Phonograph	M7	C	MOVIE
1	Which of the following can be the name of one of the bones in our knee?	kuglof	fell	brioche	cake	D	BIOLOGY
2	Continue the Petfi quote! "So how are you at home, …?"	my mommy	my dad	My Juliska	My bitch	D	LITERATURE
3	What do you fill the "tasty" pancakes with?	with cottage cheese	with jam	with cocoa	with walnuts	B	KITCHEN
4	What kind of woman did Locomotive GT sing about?	unfaithful	beautiful	blue	widow	C	MUSIC
5	What did the butler of the royal courts primarily do?	with the library	with the treasury	by accommodating the horses	by storing weapons	B	GENERAL
6	Which theater was renamed Pesti Hungarian Theater in 2000?	of the National Theatre	the Madach Theatre	the Pest Theater	Jozsef Katona Theater	A	THEATER
1	What is the "woman next door" like in the title of the film by Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau?	always blonder	always greener	always fuller	deeper cleavage	B	MOVIE
2	What kind of kingdom is the power that lasts for a short time called?	Easter	Christmas	Pentecostal	New Year's	C	LANGUAGE
3	What business association did a Hungarian rock band take on in the 80s?	VAT	GMK	Ltd	TSZ	C	MUSIC
4	What is the name of the Bank's intriguing "loose knight"?	Solo	Petur	Biberach	Tibor	C	LITERATURE
5	"Checkpoint Charlie" was a landmark of which city?	new York	San Francisco	Berlin	London	C	COUNTRIES
6	Which architectural style followed the Romanesque style?	Renaissance	gothic	Baroque	classicism	B	ARCHITECTURE
7	In which city is the Sorakatenus Toy Museum?	Kecskemet	in Szeged	in Debrecen	in Eger	A	HUNGARY
8	By what name did Bernard Schwartz become a world-famous movie star?	Humphrey Bogart	Tony Curtis	Woody Allen	Arnold Schwarzenegger	B	MOVIE
9	Who was not one of the martyrs of Arad?	Aristide Dessewffy	Jozsef Schweidel	Henrik Dembinszky	Karoly Knezich	C	HISTORY
10	Johann Sebastian Bach wrote a large-scale piece of music about the art of what?	the fugue	the cantata	the suite	the sonata	A	OPERA
11	Who was not a knight of the round table?	Parsi wall	Gawain	Cid	Lancelot	C	HISTORY
12	What was the origin of the designer of Margaret Bridge in Budapest?	English	Belgian	Prussian	French	D	ARCHITECTURE
1	Who among the following deals with pig killing?	pintre	sinter	sticker	jelly	C	GENERAL
2	What type of vehicle was named after Ferdinand von Zeppelin?	submarine	spaceship	airship	car	C	TECHNIQUE
3	Which metal is called "Hungarian silver"?	aluminum	iron	nickel	copper	A	TECHNIQUE
4	Munkacs Castle can be seen in the territory of which present-day state?	Ukraine	Slovakia	Croatia	Romania	A	HUNGARY
5	What flame is in the title of Gyula Illyes' drama?	candle	torch	wraith	straw	B	LITERATURE
1	According to the saying, what is the idle person waiting for?	for chicken	sideways	pigeon	frog legs	C	GENERAL
2	Who stands on the stern of what?	bus	locomotive	ship	electric	C	GENERAL
3	What is the name of Cain's brother in the Bible?	Aaron	Abraham	Adam	Abel	D	RELIGION
4	What is the vaccine used to inoculate?	animals	lime	fire	plants	D	GENERAL
5	How did Queen Marie Antoinette of France die?	poisoned	burned at the stake	beheaded	drowned in water	C	HISTORY
6	What kind of drink is called murci?	new wine in fermentation	fresh mead	raspberry liqueur	mixed brandy	A	KITCHEN
7	Who is Seherazade's father in The Tales of the Thousand and One Nights?	a fig tree seller	the Caliph of Baghdad	Abu, the market thief	the vizier	D	LITERATURE
8	What is the capital of Lithuania?	Vilnius	Riga	Kaunas	Tallinn	A	COUNTRIES
9	Who directed the movie Bones?	Miklos Jancso	Zoltan Huszarik	Geza Beremenyi	Istvan Szabo	B	MOVIE
1	What is the title of the movie starring Bud Spencer: "I ..."	I poke with the hedgehogs	I'm with the hippos	I swim with the whales	I'm with Terence Hill	B	MOVIE
2	What is he preparing for who is going to smoke?	for haircuts	for breakfast	for hoeing pumpkins	for smoking sausages	B	LANGUAGE
3	In which sport is one round of the match called a round?	in tennis	in fencing	in boxing	in juggling	B	SPORTS
4	Whose collar is it about? A well-known work by Alexandre Dumas?	the queen	the concubine's wife	the Tuscan jeweler	the four musketeers	A	LITERATURE
5	What is the part of the barrel?	loom	chariot	wine press	furnace	B	TECHNIQUE
6	Who were the top workers who took on much more than their peers named after?	About Bukharin	About Pugachev	About Stahanov	About Chapaev	C	LANGUAGE
7	Where was the premiere of Sophocles' plays?	in Rome	In Sparta	in Athens	in Troy	C	LITERATURE
8	What kind of snake does Riki-tiki-tevi, the mongoose, fight in The Jungle Book?	with anaconda	with a python	with a viper	with a cobra	D	LITERATURE
9	Who ate tomatoes first?	the Incas	the Chinese	the Indians	the Turks	A	KITCHEN
10	Who defeated Marcus Antonius in the Battle of Actium?	Octavian	Mucius Scaevola	Pompey	Julius Caesar	A	HISTORY
1	Keep the saying going! "Let me see when...!"	bottom of the Danube	the middle of my back	my angel's kneecap	the Spanish duster	B	LANGUAGE
2	What circle is Janos Arany's popular poem about?	friendly	family	professional	measure	B	LITERATURE
3	Which of the following does the sanitation department deal with?	with weapon repair	by farming	with wound dressing	with trade	C	LANGUAGE
4	Which of the following is not a Beatles LP?	Flowers	Help	Let It Be	Hard Day's Night	A	MUSIC
5	Who is the father of Heracles in Greek mythology?	Odysseus	Theseus	Zeus	Mars	C	RELIGION
6	Whose fleet was called the Invincible Armada in the XVI. century?	Englishmen	Spaniards	Dutch people	Venetians	B	HISTORY
7	In which sport did Imre Foldi win a gold medal at the 1972 Munich Olympics?	boxing	wrestling	hammer throwing	weight-lifting	D	SPORTS
8	Who among those listed was not the finance minister?	Lajos Bokros	Ferenc Rabar	Gyorgy Suranyi	Peter Medgyessy	C	HISTORY
9	Who played the main role in the Hungarian film And then the man...?	Lajos Basti	Latabar Kalman	Imre Sinkovits	Miklos Gabor	C	MOVIE
10	In which of our counties is onod located, where the historic parliament was held?	Szabolcs-Szatmar-Bereg county	Veszprem County	Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen county	Komarom-Esztergom County	C	GEOGRAPHY
1	Which of the following can be studied in the planetarium?	moon disease patients	sunfish	heavenly bodies	unicellular ones	C	SCIENCE
2	What did he do who "walked the shimmy"?	marched	apologized	danced	he hiked	C	LANGUAGE
3	What is the capital of Switzerland?	Zurich	Basel	Berne	Geneva	C	COUNTRIES
4	To which disciple of Jesus does the epithet unbeliever fit?	To Andras	To Tamas	to Peter	Matera	B	RELIGION
5	Which team won the 1999 European Water Polo Championship in Italy?	Italy	Croatia	Hungary	Spain	C	SPORTS
6	Which mythological creature is a symbol of poetic imagination and inspiration?	Diana	Pegasus	Cerberus	Nessos	B	RELIGION
7	What is the occupation of the title character of the operetta Miska the Magnas?	cadet	lieutenant	Bank director	archduke	A	OPERA
8	After whom was the city of Saigon renamed in 1976?	Mao Zedong	Ho Chi Minh	Chiang Kai-shek	Zhou Enlai	B	COUNTRIES
9	Which of the following is not a brass instrument?	trombone	trumpet	tuba	saxophone	D	OPERA
1	Which of the following can be naughty?	chestnut	dove	dog	great husband	C	LANGUAGE
2	What does someone who likes sprotni like?	a species of fish	Austrian folk music	Serbian dance	a type of cheese	A	LANGUAGE
3	Where did the parliament meet at the beginning of 1848?	in Buda	Gyulafehervarto	in Bratislava	in Debrecen	C	HISTORY
4	On which island does Etna's volcano operate?	Corsica	Sicily	Sardinia	Cyprus	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	What Beethoven III. adjective of his symphony?	Pastorale	Fate	Jupiter	Eroica	D	OPERA
1	Which "news" is the name of a plant?	smoke swallow news	toad frog news	silly goose news	marsh stork news	D	BIOLOGY
2	Where is the one who stands on his doorstep?	on top of a mountain	on board a ship	on a ladder	in a watchtower	C	GENERAL
3	What is a diode?	Garden tool	nursery school	folk children's game	electron tube	D	GENERAL
4	What is the name of the child born from the marriage of white and black parents?	mulatto	Mestizo	zambo	Creole	A	GENERAL
5	Who was the model for the Mona Lisa in the 16th century? as described by the 19th century painter and art writer Giorgio Vasari?	the wife of a Florentine citizen	the daughter of the Doge of Venice	the pope's niece	an unknown maid	A	FINE ARTS
6	What does the vernacular call a chirping bird?	kindergarten	flea market	poultry farm	shooting range	B	LANGUAGE
7	Who carried the Hungarian flag at the opening of the Sydney Olympics?	agnes Kovacs	Csollany New Year's Eve	Gabor Balogh	Rita Kban	D	SPORTS
8	Who was the first prime minister of the modern state of Israel?	Ben Gurion	Yitzchak Rabin	Menachem Begin	Golda Meir	A	HISTORY
9	What was the occupation of Janos Vajda's muse, Gina?	violinist	circus horsewoman	nurse	French teacher	B	LITERATURE
10	In which historical period did the present form of handshake spread among men?	in ancient Rome	the XX century	in the age of chivalry	During Napoleon's time	C	GENERAL
11	Which herb is called a bunch?	the basil	peppermint	the tarragon	the dill	B	LANGUAGE
1	Which "rain" is the name of a plant?	ratio	acidic	ice	pewter	A	BIOLOGY
2	Who did the vernacular call marauders?	the bollards	the bucks	the rogues	the brewers	C	LANGUAGE
3	What happens to the Reichstag building in February 1933?	was transformed into a parliament	was occupied by a coup d'etat	caught fire	collapsed	C	HISTORY
4	What is the Hungarian name for bronchitis?	chicken pox	appendicitis	wolf blindness	bronchitis	D	BIOLOGY
5	In which country did Shah Reza Pahlavi rule between 1941 and 1979?	Japan	India	Iran	Mongolia	C	HISTORY
6	To which continent does the Strait of Magellan belong?	to Africa	to Asia	to Australia	to South America	D	GEOGRAPHY
7	What was the title of Petfi's first published poem?	A four-oxed cart	The shepherd goes on a donkey	The wine bar	To my brother Istvan	C	LITERATURE
8	Which of the following opera heroes is not a tenor role?	Cavaradossi	Sorry, sorry	Sarastro	Radames	C	OPERA
1	According to the saying, what happens to someone who digs a hole for others?	he gets tired in the evening	his palm is injured	sand gets into his eyes	you fall into it yourself	D	LANGUAGE
2	Who is called a freshman in a college?	graduate student	first year student	teaching assistant	head of department	B	GENERAL
3	Which world-famous singer starred in the movie "Love Me Tender"?	Tom Jones	Elton John	Bob Dylan	Elvis Presley	D	MOVIE
4	Whose visit is in the title of Durrenmatt's well-known drama?	the young girl	the young lad	the old lady	the lively gentleman	C	LITERATURE
5	What kind of animal is a lobster?	Cancer	fish	shell	snail	A	BIOLOGY
6	What ministerial position did Imre Pozsgay hold between 1976 and 1980?	cultural	internal affairs	judicial	national defense	A	HISTORY
7	In which era did First Lieutenant Maria Lebstuck fight?	Rakoczi freedom struggle	World War I	War of Independence 1848-49	Siege of Eger in 1552	C	HISTORY
8	Who played the main role in the Hungarian film Duvad?	Lajos Basti	Ferenc Bessenyei	Zoltan Latinovits	Gabor Koncz	B	MOVIE
9	What nationality was U Thant, the former Secretary General of the United Nations?	Cambodian	Korean	Burmese	Pakistani	C	HISTORY
10	Who was the husband of the poet Amy Karolyi?	Istvan Vas	Zoltan Jekely	Sandor Weores	Jen Dsida	C	LITERATURE
11	On which river is the former papal seat, Avignon, located?	Rhône	Rhine	Saone	Garonne	A	HISTORY
1	What does the vernacular call an evil person who pretends to be pious?	a sheep in wolf's clothing	Wolf in Sheep's Clothing	fox in rabbit skin	rabbit in fox fur	B	LANGUAGE
2	Who among the following is a symbol of immeasurable wealth?	Darius	Damocles	Democritus	Dana's	A	GENERAL
3	What happens to a novice when he downloads the trial period?	doctor	Kindergarten teacher	nun	lawyer	C	GENERAL
4	According to the well-known Petfi poem, what came up?	the wind of revolution	the conscience of the nation	the sea of peoples	a memory of freedom	C	LITERATURE
5	What is the association color of Vasas Sport Club?	blue and white	red-blue	Red Black	purple and white	B	SPORTS
6	What animal is the protagonist of the Oscar-winning Hungarian cartoon?	mosquito	fox	mouse	fly	D	MOVIE
7	Which is the largest warm water lake in Europe?	Lake Garda	Lake Ladoga	Lake Worth	Lake Hevíz	D	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which of the following is one of the titles of honor of the occupying Hungarians?	it's cool	colossal	snort	zolta	C	HISTORY
1	Which part of our body can be "measured" in minutes?	our shoulders	our fingers	our hips	our necks	B	BIOLOGY
2	Which of the following tools is not used for equipping draft animals?	I'm walking	yoke	hymen	hackle	D	GENERAL
3	What adjective is used to refer to IV. Is Ivan a Russian tsar?	Drums	He was terrified	Lion hearted	A hatter	B	HISTORY
4	In which country was the Solidarity trade union movement founded?	Poland	Germany	France	Yugoslavia	A	HISTORY
5	Which composer visited the Brunszvik family several times in Martonvasar?	Berlioz	Brahms	Haydn	Beethoven	D	OPERA
6	What do you call the ascetic, mystical religious monks of Islam?	bathtubs	Mamluks	eunuchs	dervishes	D	RELIGION
7	What role did Al Pacino play in Serpico?	gangster	a lawyer	a police officer	soldier	C	MOVIE
8	What is the nationality of Depeche Mode?	French	Briton	Canadian	Australian	B	MUSIC
9	According to the Bible, who did David spy from the roof of his palace while bathing?	Judith	Zsuzsanna	Rachlet	Bathsheba	D	RELIGION
10	Which of our kings is not on the Millennium Monument on Hsok Square?	Zsigmond	ARC. Bela	Louis the Great	II. Andrew	A	ARCHITECTURE
11	Who was not a member of the Russian group of composers called "The Five"?	Mussorgsky	Rimsky-Korsakov	Glinka	Borogin	C	OPERA
1	What do you call a person who changes his principles according to his interests?	cloak spinner	scarf winder	coat button	shoe polisher	A	GENERAL
2	What kind of garment is Bermuda?	tie	shirt	cocked hat	pants	D	GENERAL
3	The male of which animal among the following is called a rooster?	stork	goose	pheasant	coots	C	BIOLOGY
4	What is a mule man like?	short, squat	stubborn, headstrong	irascible	tall skinny	D	LANGUAGE
1	What can nobody be in his own country, according to the saying?	proctor	prophet	professor	producer	B	GENERAL
2	Which biblical city do we refer to when we want to express the chaotic state of something?	Yerevan	Jericho	Babel	Damascus	C	RELIGION
3	Where do ladies wear brooches?	in their ears	on their fingers	on their clothes	in their hair	C	GENERAL
4	Which singer won the dance song festival with the song "Szoljon hangan az enek"?	Peter Matthew	Pal Szecsi	Rezs Soltesz	Gjon Delhusa	C	MUSIC
5	In which of our counties is Pakozd, famous for the first battle of the War of Independence, located?	Head	Veszprem	peaceful	Nograd	A	GEOGRAPHY
6	Which word is spelled incorrectly?	heaven	ceiling	heavenly store	wedding ceremony	D	LANGUAGE
7	Which of the following structures was not one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World?	Temple of Artemis in Ephesus	Halicarnassus Mausoleum	Statue of Zeus by Pheidias	Solomon's Temple	D	HISTORY
8	What is a valid hit surface in dueling?	the whole body	upper body only	the upper body and the head	the upper body and limbs	A	SPORTS
9	What nationality was the famous opera composer Giacomo Meyerbeer?	German	Italian	English	Austrian	A	OPERA
10	Where is Bertolucci's film Stolen Beauty set?	in Rome	in Paris	in Tuscany	in Corsica	C	MOVIE
1	What does the proverbial naughty child do to the fire?	wet twig	bad wood	cheap briquettes	oily rag	B	LANGUAGE
2	What animal is Cleopatra believed to have committed suicide with?	crocodile	snake	Scorpio	Lion	B	HISTORY
3	An imam is a highly respected religious scholar of which faith?	Buddhist	Hindu	Islamic	sinto	C	RELIGION
4	Where did Picasso's painting Guernica get its title?	of a hue	about a city	about a ballet dancer	about a patron's daughter	B	FINE ARTS
5	What kind of woman did Animal Cannibals sing about in the 90s?	sewing	teacher	Secretary	cleaner	D	MUSIC
6	Which expression containing the year is spelled incorrectly?	Before 1848	Martyrs of 1848	March 1848	In March 1848	D	LANGUAGE
7	Who falls in love with the protagonist of the Hungarian film Bakaruhaban, the young journalist?	a princess	a countess	a maid	a teacher	C	MOVIE
1	What do we say to a person who has been active in his profession for a long time?	old pedestrian	old bicycle	old biker	old car	C	GENERAL
2	The BBC is the state-owned radio and television company of which country?	Canada	USA	Great Britain	Belgium	C	COUNTRIES
3	Which singer played in the movie More Than a Bodyguard?	Tina Turner	Cher	Whitney Houston	Madonna	C	MOVIE
4	Hural is the parliament of which country?	Tajikistan	Mongolia	Malaysia	North Korea	B	COUNTRIES
5	Who is Mario in Thomas Mann's famous short story?	sanatorium patient	wizard	holiday guest	young waiter	D	LITERATURE
6	Which famous Renaissance painter was also involved in anatomical and optical experiments?	Raffaello	Leonardo	Michelangelo	Titian	B	FINE ARTS
7	What was the decoction of hemlock fruit used for in ancient times?	to execute convicts	for dyeing clothes	for making mortar	for making glue	A	GENERAL
8	Which former child actor played the lead role in the Hungarian film arvacska?	Peter Geszti	Monika Ullmann	Zsuzsa Czinkoczi	Krisztian Kovacs	C	MOVIE
9	Which astronomer recognized the laws of planetary motion?	Kepler	Galileo	Lowell	Copernicus	A	SCIENCE
1	What are the top seats in the theater gallery called?	swallow's nest	cuckoo's nest	cock sitting	goose farm	C	THEATER
2	What was "force" the unit of measurement for power before the introduction of the SI system?	buffalo	elephant	ox	Shoot	D	SCIENCE
3	What kind of food is called a lining?	cake	loop	pork cheese	stuffed meat	A	KITCHEN
4	What flower is in the title of Alain Delon's 1963 adventure film?	yellow Rose	golden lily	black Tulip	blue violet	C	MOVIE
5	What is the only weak point of the legendary Achilles?	heart	heel	neck	the back of his head	B	RELIGION
6	From which part of the plant does the cotyledon emerge?	from his branch	from the core	from its root	from his tribe	B	BIOLOGY
7	Who directed the Hungarian cartoon Feherlofia?	Attila Dargay	Marcell Jankovics	Jozsef Nepp	Jozsef Gemes	B	MOVIE
8	Which of our singers sang "That's why there are good friends..."?	Gyorgy Korda	Pal Szecsi	Laszlo Aradszky	Peter Matthew	D	MUSIC
9	Which big river of ours borders Ormansat?	Danube	For him	Drava	Mura	C	GEOGRAPHY
10	What was the name of the only son of Francis Joseph and Queen Elizabeth?	Otto	Ferdinand	Rudolph	Miska	C	HISTORY
1	How does the object disappear without a trace, according to the saying?	by the hair	by ear and tail	reed and reed	in ditches and bushes	A	LANGUAGE
2	Which word refers to a type of cheese?	granite	marble	andesite	tufa	B	KITCHEN
3	Who is the father of Icarus in Greek mythology?	Minotaur	Daedalus	Apollo	Zeus	B	RELIGION
4	What kind of teacher is in the title of the film based on Ferenc Mora's novel?	Alexander the Great	Bonaparte	Hannibal	Spartacus	C	MOVIE
5	In which sport did Gabor Balogh win a silver medal at the Sydney Olympics?	in a kayak-canoe	in sport shooting	in five	in wrestling	C	SPORTS
6	Which film festival award is the Golden Lion?	in Cannes	the Venetian	the berlin	of Locarno	B	MOVIE
7	Which building was designed by Adam Clark?	chain Bridge	Buda Tunnel	Palatine Beach Bath	Szechenyi Lookout	B	ARCHITECTURE
1	What do you call in sports when the teams agree on the final result in advance?	overcoat	on my head	suba	fur coat	D	GENERAL
2	Who is James Fenimore Cooper's novel about?	about the last apache	about the last comanche	about the last Sioux	about the last of the mohican	D	LITERATURE
3	What is the origin of the famous painter Victor Vasarely?	Greek	Irish	Sicilian	Hungarian	D	FINE ARTS
4	What kind of food are waffles?	Turkish meat	american pancakes	French onion soup	English tenderloin	B	KITCHEN
5	What was called a Greek?	the lame dog	the curved angle	an old visco	a chemical tool	D	LANGUAGE
6	In which of our counties is the village of Buk, famous for its spa, located?	Iron	Zala	Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen	Hajdu-Bihar	A	GEOGRAPHY
7	Who is not one of the authors of the four gospels of the New Testament?	Paul	Matthew	Mark	Luke	A	RELIGION
8	What kind of journey did Franz Schubert write a song cycle about?	fatal	large	winter	lucky	C	OPERA
9	What is the SI unit of luminous flux?	candles	lumens	lux	farad	B	SCIENCE
1	What are the foods that help with beer consumption called?	beer number	beer skates	beer troika	beer slider	B	KITCHEN
2	What "Coroners" did a band become known as?	Flying	Musician	Sniping	Roaring	C	MUSIC
3	Which city's landmark is Wall Street, considered the center of the financial world?	London	new York	Washington	Geneva	B	COUNTRIES
4	What animal was your iguana?	dog	dinosaur	big cat	cetacean	B	BIOLOGY
5	Where does Anna Karenina end her life in Tolstoy's novel?	in a garden	at a train station	in a salon	on a hunt	B	LITERATURE
6	Who led the Hungarian armies in the Battle of Rigomez in 1448?	Pal Kinizzi	Ferenc Nadasdy	Janos Hunyadi	Turkish Balint	C	HISTORY
7	What knight did Richard Strauss write an opera about?	rose	luck	robber	crusader	A	OPERA
8	Who is the Hungarian explorer whose life was recently covered in an Oscar-winning film?	armin Vambery	Samuel Teleki	Kalman Kittenberger	Laszlo Almasy	D	MOVIE
9	Which famous writer's original name is Aurore Dupin?	Simone de Beauvoir	George Sand	Selma Lagerlof	Sylvia Plath	B	LITERATURE
1	Which of the following is the name of a cooking vessel?	boyar	burdock	cooker	fell	C	GENERAL
2	What can you see when you walk in an arboretum?	wine barrels	tower blocks	folk art show	plants	D	LANGUAGE
3	What noble title does Munchhausen, a literary figure famous for his eavesdropping, use?	Warden	baron	prince	Palatine	B	LITERATURE
4	Who used to be called a fiscal?	teacher	a lawyer	clerk	sacristy	B	LANGUAGE
5	The snow of which mountain is in the title of Hemingway's work?	Mont Blanc	Fujiyama	Himalayas	Kilimanjaro	D	LITERATURE
6	Where does the female figure stand out in Botticelli's painting The Birth of Venus?	from clouds	behind rocks	from a pillar of flame	from the sea	D	FINE ARTS
7	Who did the famous general Blucher defeat on the battlefield of Leipzig?	Tsar Alexander of Russia	Admiral Nelson	Napoleon	II. Frederick	C	HISTORY
8	What instrument was the artist of the XVI. century Balint Bakfark?	violin	lute	horn	harpsichord	B	OPERA
9	At which university did Marton Luther teach from 1508?	from Wartburg	of Wittenberg	from Heidelberg	Strasbourg	B	HISTORY
10	Who is the main character in Jean Renoir's classic film The Big Dream?	Jean Marais	Jean Gabin	Yves Montand	Philippe Gerard	B	MOVIE
11	Which is the smallest island nation on earth?	Malta	Marshall Islands	Nauru	Seychelles Islands	C	GEOGRAPHY
1	What is another name for sandpaper?	rolls	snideling	krigli	sandpaper	D	GENERAL
2	What kind of living thing is thuja?	sea urchin	long beaked bird	edible mushroom	evergreen plant	D	BIOLOGY
3	What boatman is in the title of Verne's novel?	yes	Danube	quick-around	from Hernad	B	LITERATURE
4	To which royal family did our king with the adjective "Dobzse" belong?	arpad house	Jagiellonian House	House of Anjou	House of Habsburg	B	HISTORY
5	How do you play snob?	with balls	with a card	with coins	with chopsticks	C	GAME
6	Who or what was called igric in the Middle Ages?	singer	gooseberry	behind the ear	little thing	A	LANGUAGE
7	Which of the following films was not directed by Hitchcock?	Lady of Manderley House	Dizziness	Psycho	Psyche	D	MOVIE
8	The 16-part "Slavic Dances" is the work of which composer?	Tchaikovsky	Sour cream	Dvorak	Mussorgsky	C	OPERA
1	Which plant is named after one of the mountains in our country?	pepper	beech	quince	tinsel	B	LANGUAGE
2	What terrifying newcomers do the inhabitants of the square circular forest fear in Ervin Lazar's tale?	from bodobacs	from pom poms	from wooden pegs	from scones	B	LITERATURE
3	Polonaise is the national dance of which country?	Poland	France	Spain	Czech Republic	A	COUNTRIES
4	What kind of animal is the mamba?	monkey	antelope	snake	dolphin	C	BIOLOGY
5	Who founded the University of Moscow?	Mikhail Kutuzov	Mikhail Lermontov	Mikhail Lomonosov	Dmitri Mendeleev	C	GENERAL
6	Which band did Mikrolled vocals sing with in the seventies?	Generate	Metro	Express	Bergendy	A	MUSIC
7	What "generation" is in the title of Ferenc Andras's film?	small	lost	brilliant	large	D	MOVIE
8	Where was theater director Johann Wolfgang von Goethe?	Frankfurt	Weimar	Leipzig	Berlin	B	LITERATURE
9	Who was Prime Minister of Great Britain at the time of Stalin's death in 1953?	Clement Attlee	Sir Winston Churchill	Harold Wilson	Sir Anthony Eden	B	HISTORY
1	What "meat" is the name of a food grilled on a skewer?	predatory meat	thief's meat	outlaw meat	pandur meat	A	KITCHEN
2	What is Sputnik?	space shuttle	launcher	satellite	space telescope	C	TECHNIQUE
1	Where does one go who is going to the theater?	to the pub	to the theater	to a teahouse	to dance school	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do we call the stunt performers' walking device, the two long wooden poles that can be attached to the legs?	flamingo foot	giraffe foot	stilt	elephant foot	C	GENERAL
3	Continue Villon's well-known hospitality! "But where is last year's …?"	summer	kiss	snow	weave	C	LITERATURE
4	Martin Luther King was the leader of the civil rights movement of which country?	Republic of South Africa	United States	Belgian Congo	Cuba	B	HISTORY
5	What kind of monster is jealousy according to Shakespeare?	cannibal	self devouring	green-eyed	seven-headed	C	LITERATURE
6	With which Greek god was the Roman Mercury identified?	With Dionysus	With Hermes	With pan	With Apollo	B	RELIGION
7	In which of our counties is the Bugacpuszta, which attracts many visitors, located?	Csongrad	Hajdu-Bihar	Bacs-Kiskun	Pest	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which world-famous athlete won the Olympic discus championship four times in a row?	Al Oerter	Clarence Houser	David Weill	Ludvik Danek	A	SPORTS
9	In which of the following films did Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo play together?	Rocco and his brothers	Borsalino	The samurai	The Rio adventure	B	MOVIE
10	Where did the monks wear the cord?	in their prayer book	around their waists	in their necks	on their feet	B	GENERAL
1	According to popular belief, which animal always falls on your feet?	gorilla	cat	centipede	snake	B	GENERAL
2	Who wanted to marry his daughter to the brave Janos?	Iluska's stepmother	the French king	the Tatar khan	the king of the giants	B	LITERATURE
3	What kind of drink is your tea?	coffee	tea	cocoa	coconut milk	B	KITCHEN
4	Which famous painter had a blue and pink period?	For Chagall	To Dali	For Picasso	to Braque	C	FINE ARTS
5	In which swimming event did Krisztina Egerszegi win at the 1988 Seoul Olympics?	backstroke	fast swimming	breaststroke	butterfly swimming	A	SPORTS
6	Where was the abdication of the Habsburgs announced on April 14, 1849?	in Bratislava	in Debrecen	Cash register	in Szekesfehervar	B	HISTORY
7	What is aranca scrotum?	medieval torture device	a weed	venomous snake	hunting trap	B	LANGUAGE
8	What is the name of Antonio Banderas in the movie Desperado?	Sabbath	El Nino	Mucho Macho	El Mariachi	D	MOVIE
1	What does a car engine do when it suddenly stops due to excessive load?	suffocate	suffocates	suffocates	drowns	C	TECHNIQUE
2	What are raisins made of?	from gooseberries	from medlar	from figs	from grapes	D	KITCHEN
3	What middle way did Horace preach?	ratio	silver	bronze	tin	A	LITERATURE
4	What are the names of the one-eyed giants of Greek mythology?	parsnips	Cyclops	Phaias	Argonauts	B	RELIGION
5	What kind of bride did Smetana write an opera about?	it is enchanted	the cheated on me	the deceived	it's sold	D	OPERA
6	Who is the leader of the Turkish besiegers in the work of Janos Arany, in the two small stories of Szondi?	Ali	Suleiman	Bayazid	I love you	A	LITERATURE
7	Which of the following is not a halogen element?	chlorine	helium	fluorine	bromine	B	SCIENCE
8	Which Hungarian king waged war against Naples?	II. Andrew	III. Bela	Louis the Great	Zsigmond	C	HISTORY
9	Who played the young man seduced by Mrs. Robinson in Mike Nichols's Before the Graduation?	Woody Allen	Dustin Hoffman	Robert Redford	Omar Sharif	B	MOVIE
10	Which country's national team did our women's handball team play against in the EC final in Bucharest?	Romania	Russia	Ukraine	Denmark	C	SPORTS
11	What is Canada balsam used for?	as an adhesive	as body lotion	as a perfume base material	as a furniture polisher	A	GENERAL
1	What did the man wearing the military uniform wear?	crinoline	overalls	condor	for underwear	D	GENERAL
2	Who inhabits the country of Lilliput in Swift's novel?	dwarves	giants	fairies	dragons	A	LITERATURE
3	"Waterloo" was a hit by which band?	Boney M	Pussycat	ABBA	Bee Gees	C	MUSIC
4	Who attacked Pearl Harbor in December 1941?	Japanese people	Germans	Russians	Italians	A	HISTORY
5	Members of which group of birds fly in a "V" shape?	sparrows	swallows	wild geese	pigeons	C	BIOLOGY
6	Constantine, who was born in Bíbor, was the emperor of which state?	German-Roman Empire	Byzantine Empire	Western Roman Empire	Frankish Empire	B	HISTORY
7	In what month are the presidents of the United States inaugurated?	November	December	January	February	C	GENERAL
8	Which German footballer was the most national team player?	Gerd Muller	Lothar Matthaus	Franz Beckenbauer	Jurgen Klinsmann	B	SPORTS
1	Which aquatic animal is named after the outer part of the ear?	octopus	jellyfish	shell	shark	C	BIOLOGY
2	Which fruit is related to the apple?	the fig	the quince	the coconut	the date	B	BIOLOGY
3	Who held the sky on his shoulders in Greek mythology?	Uranus	Atlas	Prometheus	Achilles	B	RELIGION
4	Based on the title of the novel, what could Moricz not live without?	woman	seven crayfish	music word	Mr. Muri	C	LITERATURE
5	What Nobel Prize did Albert Einstein receive?	didn't get it	chemical	physical	physiological	C	SCIENCE
6	Who was trained at the Ludovika Academy?	military officers	biologists	humanities	musicians	A	GENERAL
7	In which city is the medieval Ruins Park, which hides the royal tombs, located?	Esztergom	Pecs	Szekesfehervar	Szombathely	C	HUNGARY
8	Who was Andrei Rublev, the title character of Tarkovsky's world-famous film?	the first tsar	icon painter	warlord	patriarch	B	MOVIE
9	What is a favela?	rudimentary cutlery	modern ballroom dance	Mexican food	visco in South America	D	LANGUAGE
1	Complete the children's poem! "A little pig, rof-rof-rof,..."	trumpet blast: tof-tof-tof	stirs: Cupp-cupp-cupp	dinner: Yum-yum-yum	keeps screaming: Uí-uí-uí	A	LITERATURE
2	What color is the arctic fox's fur in winter?	white	red	brown	black	A	BIOLOGY
3	What did they call kaloda?	office of found objects	the millstone	medieval criminal instrument	a Transylvanian dish	C	LANGUAGE
4	What is the name of the young revolutionary in Petfi's "The Apostle"?	Maximilian	Oliver	Saul	New Year's Eve	D	LITERATURE
5	What is the teacher of life according to the Latin saying?	the nature	the history	the art	the dream	B	LITERATURE
6	Where can you see Michelangelo's Last Judgment fresco?	in Florence	In Venice	in Milan	in Rome	D	FINE ARTS
7	In which film did Marlene Dietrich play the lead role?	Dizziness	A witness for the prosecution	The Shanghai woman	The Maltese Falcon	B	MOVIE
8	Who was Janos Corvin's mother?	Beatrix of Aragon	Katalin Podjebrad	Edelpeck Barball	Ilona Wolfram	C	HISTORY
1	How does the saying express that circumstances have changed?	Another day shines in the sky.	Other winds are blowing.	Other lightning strikes.	Another rain is falling.	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which is the name of both a piece of clothing and a butcher's product?	kimono	croquet	crinoline	to hide	C	LANGUAGE
3	Who among the following is famous for his panopticon in London?	Lady Chatterley	Madame Tussauds	Miss Marple	Mrs. Robinson	B	GENERAL
4	Who is the bloody poet in Kosztolanyi's novel?	D'Annunzio	Nero	Danton	Dante	B	LITERATURE
5	Which was named after a Hungarian village?	Okapi	cinema	car	dowel	C	LANGUAGE
6	Which garment is made of woolen sheepskin?	the pendant	the suba	the goo	the filter	B	GENERAL
7	According to the legends, who was Bendeguz, also known from the National Anthem?	Attila's father	His sleepy father	arpad's father	Geza's father	A	HISTORY
8	Who wrote the score for Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream?	Tchaikovsky	Berlioz	Mendelssohn	Schubert	C	OPERA
9	Which film did Milos Forman make after emigrating from Czechoslovakia?	There's fire, baby!	Black Peter	Amadeus	A fluffy love	C	MOVIE
10	Where is Reuters news agency headquartered?	London	Washington	Berlin	Paris	A	COUNTRIES
11	Which country does Easter Island belong to?	Great Britain	Argentina	USA	Chile	D	GEOGRAPHY
12	Which Russian Tsar provided military aid to the Habsburgs in 1849?	Nicholas I	II. Michael	Alexander I	II. Alexander	A	HISTORY
1	What is the name of Kanga's little one in Winnie the Pooh?	In a pocket	Pocket boob	Pocket baby	Pocket doll	D	LITERATURE
2	What part of the cork oak is cork made from?	from its outer bark	from its root	branch	from his glans	A	BIOLOGY
3	In which city can football fans visit the Nagyerde stadium?	in Diosgyr	in Szeged	in Debrecen	Nyíregyhaza	C	SPORTS
4	What kind of "cold" claimed victims in the world at the end of the 1910s?	Italian	French	Hungarian	Spanish	D	GENERAL
5	Which prize was founded by the actress Blanka Pechy?	Karinthy Award	Kazinczy Prize	Jozsef Attila Award	Jaszai Award	B	GENERAL
6	Where can the Venus of Milo be viewed?	in Athens	in Florence	in Paris	in Madrid	C	FINE ARTS
7	Who was the Prime Minister of Great Britain during the Falkland Islands War?	Sir Winston Churchill	John Major	Margaret Thatcher	Harold Wilson	C	HISTORY
8	What does a state absolutely not have during the interregnum?	national debt	natural limit	its capital	legal head of state	D	HISTORY
9	Which American writer was Marilyn Monroe's second husband?	Tennessee Williams	Ernest Hemingway	Arthur Miller	Joseph Heller	C	MOVIE
10	The island of Saint Helena is a foreign possession of which country?	Great Britain	Italy	France	USA	A	GEOGRAPHY
11	Which months does the thermidor snow of the French revolutionary calendar correspond to?	January February	March-April	July August	October-November	C	HISTORY
12	Who wrote a suite about Seherazade?	Mussorgsky	Rimsky-Korsakov	Ferenc Liszt	Dvorak	B	OPERA
13	Who among the following astronauts was the youngest in space?	Valery Kubasov	Bertalan Farkas	Yuri Gagarin	Neil Armstrong	C	SCIENCE
1	Who saves Little Red Riding Hood and Grandma in the fairy tale?	the king	the hunter	the starry-eyed shepherd	the three little pigs	B	LITERATURE
2	What kind of gate is a carved gate covered like a roof called?	Moorish	Szekely	Slavic	Doric	B	ARCHITECTURE
3	Who does Faust make a contract with in Goethe's work?	Archangel Gabriel	With mephisto	with Evangelist Mark	With Hermes	B	LITERATURE
4	What athlete's life is the movie Raging Bull about?	bullfighter	car racer	wrestler	boxer	D	MOVIE
5	In what style was the Palace of Versailles built?	classicist	Baroque	pigtail	Renaissance	B	ARCHITECTURE
6	In which opera is the Queen of the Night's aria performed?	Gounod: Faust	Mozart: The Magic Flute	Rossini: Cinderella	Wagner: Twilight of the Gods	B	OPERA
7	What was the first name of the famous outlaw Vidroczki?	Bertalan	Martin	Thomas	Alexander	B	HISTORY
8	For whose training was the Eotvos College established?	teachers	doctors	lawyers	engineers	A	GENERAL
1	What does it take to do a good job, according to the saying?	inspiration	time	five-year plan	rise	B	LANGUAGE
2	What does the weaver do?	with wood carving	with weaving	with iron turning	with leather processing	B	GENERAL
3	By what name did the comedy duo Oliver Hardy and Stanley Laurel become known in Hungary?	Hacsek and Sajo	Fredi and Beni	Stan and Pan	Zoro and Huru	C	GENERAL
4	Who was Enrico Caruso?	car racer	opera singer	sculptor	film director	B	GENERAL
5	Where was your spur used?	in a water mill	when threshing	when plowing	when cubing	C	GENERAL
6	Which of the following is the basic ingredient of korely soup?	sleeping milk	sauerkraut juice	White wine	tomato puree	B	KITCHEN
7	Which apostle took the vacant place after the death of Judas?	Jakab	Matthias	Philip	Thomas	B	RELIGION
8	Who wrote the text of Erkel Bank's ban?	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Egressy Beni	Bela Balazs	Gabor Egressy	B	OPERA
1	What does patience produce, according to the saying?	resedat	gerbera	forget your name	a rose	D	LANGUAGE
2	What is the name of the land from which the grain crop was cut?	it would stretch	stubble	reservoir	on top of it	B	GENERAL
3	Which of the following languages does the person who knows Deak speak?	in Italian	in Latin	in Old German	in French	B	LANGUAGE
4	Which member of the Golden Team was nicknamed Cucu?	Jozsef Zakarias	Laszlo II of Buda	Sandort Kocsis	Bozsik Jozsef	D	SPORTS
5	Which country does the island of Ibiza belong to?	to France	to Italy	to Portugal	to Spain	D	GEOGRAPHY
6	Which singer appeared in Mad Max III. in the movie?	Madonna	Tina Turner	Whitney Houston	Cher	B	MOVIE
1	How does the saying continue? "It's a shame to run, but..."	faster than walking	useful	healthy	clever solution	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following can be made of batiste?	roof tile	laundry	fountain pen	ball bearing	B	GENERAL
3	In which Hungarian settlement can you see only two towers according to the folk song?	in Nagyvarad	In Nagyabony	Nagykros	Nagymaros	B	LITERATURE
4	What is the family name of Shakespeare's Romeo?	Escalus	Benvolio	Capulet	Montague	D	LITERATURE
5	What kind of dictionary did Sandor Csoma Krosi make?	Tibetan-English	Anglo-Manchu	Hungarian-divided	Hungarian-Tibetan	A	HISTORY
1	How does Archimedes' hostel word sound? "Don't disturb me…!"	my circles	my rhombuses	my triangles	my parallelepipeds	A	SCIENCE
2	Which is one of the zodiac signs of the horoscope?	Spider	Scorpio	Lobster	Wasp	B	GENERAL
3	According to the saying, which part of the body of the scolded person was washed?	legs	hand	back	his head	D	LANGUAGE
4	Which musical instrument can be made from a pig's bladder stretched over the mouth of an earthenware pot?	profuse	you bastard	his gain	dulcimer	B	GENERAL
5	Who settled the Hajdus in the counties of Hajdu and Bihar in 1606?	Imre Thokoly	Janos Szapolyai	Istvan Bocskai	Istvan Werbczy	C	HISTORY
6	Which animal does not belong to the phylum Mollusca?	squid	lake mussel	snails	worm	D	BIOLOGY
7	What is Hamlet's last sentence before his death in Janos Arany's translation?	Fight and trust with confidence!	The rest is silence.	Go shoot a line!	To be or not to be!	B	LITERATURE
8	Composer Fenyes Szabolcs was director of which theater twice?	Operetta theater	Opera house	Erkel Theater	Madach Theater	A	THEATER
9	Which of our fencers did not win an Olympic gold medal in fencing?	Tibor Pezsa	Csaba Fenyvesi	Rudolph of Carpathia	Endre Kabos	B	SPORTS
10	What kind of person in Szekelyfold was called strict?	to the deep voice	to the two-color	to the disaffected	on his skin	D	LANGUAGE
1	What is the name of a sport called "flying"?	witch	fairy	dragon	goblin	C	SPORTS
2	Why doesn't the raven gouge out its eyes as the saying goes?	to the scarecrow	to the grape cluster	to the raven	for corn	C	LANGUAGE
3	What is the name of the prime minister in Austria?	government commissioner	Chancellor	Governor	prime minister	B	GENERAL
4	What do the Japanese do with sake?	read it	they drink it	they count on him	they travel on it	B	LANGUAGE
5	What power did Verdi write an opera about?	the love	the destiny	the king	the money	B	OPERA
6	Who is not King Lear's daughter?	Ginevra	Regan	Goneril	Cordelia	A	LITERATURE
7	What does the government that imposes an embargo unilaterally break?	political relations	trade relations	the right of travel of the heads of state	the sessions of the parliament	B	LANGUAGE
8	What "man" is in the title of Andrzej Wajda's famous film?	granite	clay	marble	ratio	C	MOVIE
1	What is the name of a pasta dish?	smoky	coal	fiery	fiery	D	KITCHEN
2	Who goes to whom, according to the saying, who runs from one place to another without success?	From Caiaphas to Barabbas	From Pontius to Pilate	From Saul to Paulus	From Adam to Eve	B	LANGUAGE
3	According to the title of Audrey Hepburn's famous film, what "vacation" did she take?	from Dresden	Kenyan	Siberian	Roman	D	MOVIE
4	What winds are in the title of Emily Bronte's novel?	bright	raging	roaring	whispering	C	LITERATURE
5	"I saw a cako while walking in the village," someone reports. The sight of what gave him a memorable experience?	of a grain bin	of an embroidered coat	of an eye-catching wench	of a stork	D	LANGUAGE
6	AFP is the news agency of which country?	Austria	France	Finland	Australia	B	COUNTRIES
7	Which of the following artists is not a Budapest theater named after?	Attila Jozsef	Soldier Jozsef	Miklos Radnoti	Mihaly Vorosmarty	D	THEATER
8	Which country XX. Did the Falangists play an important role in the history of the 19th century?	Soviet Union	Spain	Austria	Greece	B	HISTORY
1	Which "potato" is the name of a dish?	hay	straw	thistle	bouillabaisse	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of poet do we call an untalented poet?	birch tree	poplar tree	willow	beech tree	C	LANGUAGE
3	What is John M. Browning's famous invention?	Jeans	gun	aircraft	drilling machine	B	TECHNIQUE
4	What castle is in the title of Mor Jokai's novel?	haunted you	anonymous	spike	sand	B	LITERATURE
5	What is Kormagyar?	agricultural building	ballroom dance of the reform era	village wedding table	solemn procession of believers	B	LANGUAGE
6	Which famous inventor is named after one of the albums of the Fonograph band?	Morse	Bell	Zeppelin	Edison	D	MUSIC
7	The Tagore memorial tree is a landmark of which Balaton city?	Tihany	Siofok	Keszthely	Balatonfured	D	HUNGARY
8	Who conquered the Peruvian Inca Empire?	Cortazar	Cortez	Pizarro	Piscator	C	HISTORY
9	Who is Achilles' mother in Greek mythology?	Hera	Andromache	Iphigenia	Thetis	D	RELIGION
1	Which of the following is the name of a building?	bell ear	bell tongue	bell hand	belfry	D	ARCHITECTURE
2	Where hasn't Piedone been in the titles of movies starring Bud Spencer?	in Hong Kong	in Africa	In Egypt	in Baghdad	D	MOVIE
3	What unit of measure is the price?	length	weight	area	Mr	C	SCIENCE
4	Who was the prime minister of the government immediately preceding the regime change?	Mattyas Szuros	Karoly Grosz	Miklos Nemeth	Imre Pozsgay	C	HISTORY
5	Which part of the eye controls the amount of light entering?	pupil	corpus luteum	hall water	lacrimal gland	A	BIOLOGY
6	Believers of which religion are baptized only as adults?	unitary	reformed	baptist	Eastern Greek	C	RELIGION
1	Where does Little Red Riding Hood go in the story?	to the school	to the cake vendor	to his grandmother	to the hunter	C	LITERATURE
2	Which animal gets married according to a well-known Hungarian folk song?	the voles	the crickets	the bear	the donkey	B	LITERATURE
3	What did the blue painters paint?	linen items	tulip boxes	the clean rooms	tile stoves	A	GENERAL
4	Who is merciful according to the biblical parable?	the Pharisee	the Samaritan	the Levite	the Sadducean	B	RELIGION
5	Luxor was a major settlement of which ancient state?	Mesopotamia	Persia	Egypt	Assyria	C	HISTORY
6	What is the occupation of Miska, the character of the operetta The Queen of the Inn?	lieutenant	general	head waiter	ambassador	C	OPERA
7	What year did the events of the "Prague Spring" take place?	1956	1968	1973	1985	B	HISTORY
8	Who was the brother of Orestes in Greek mythology?	Antigone's	Oedipus	For life	Orpheus	C	RELIGION
9	Who did Felicia Zach commit an assassination against?	Louis the Great	Robert Karoly	Zsigmond	II. Andrew	B	HISTORY
1	What is a soul loser?	card	brandy	small boat	the psychiatrist's couch	C	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of feast is a luxurious meal called?	Homeric	Lucullus	tantalum	lesbian	B	LANGUAGE
3	Merlin the wizard was a mythological figure of which people?	Greek	Hindu	Celtic	Roman	C	RELIGION
4	Who does the title of Bertolt Brecht's play call us to stop?	Godot	Arturo Ui	the bald singer	szechuan welfare	B	LITERATURE
5	In which of our landscape units is the Hansag located?	Magnanimity	Little Land	It's petty	Thinness	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	Whose wife was Sarolt?	Prince Saint Imre	King Saint Stephen	Prince Geza	Sleepy leader	C	HISTORY
7	Which Hungarian scientist received the Nobel Prize for the discovery of the holograph?	Denes Gabor	John Polanyi	Jen Wigner	Ede Teller	A	SCIENCE
8	Which hero did Omar Sharif play in David Lean's 1965 film?	Yevgeny Anyegin	Doctor Zsivagot	Count Vronsky	Raskolnikov	B	MOVIE
9	Which footballer was the first to win the Ballon d'Or?	Alfredo di Stefano	Stanley Matthews	Luis Suarez	Josef Masopust	B	SPORTS
1	According to the word connection, what season do old women have?	full	spring	summer	autumn	C	LANGUAGE
2	How did the Romans write the number thousand?	X	L	C	M	D	HISTORY
3	What animal is in the title of Ivan Mandy's novel about Csutak?	orphan kitten	wet tit	gray horse	puli with button eyes	C	LITERATURE
4	Who is a type of beard named after in Hungary?	Golden John	Ferenc Deak	Lajos Kossuth	Imre Madach	C	GENERAL
5	Which instrument does the excellent jazz musician Bela Szakcsi Lakatos play?	saxophone	drum	guitar	piano	D	MUSIC
6	Ferenc Ferdinand Baumgarten founded what prize?	classical music	literary	fine arts	performing arts	B	ART
7	Which of the following expressions is incorrectly spelled?	Gardonyi-like	Eotvos's	Friend Julian statue	Jozsef Attila Award	D	LANGUAGE
8	Who is the patron saint of Ireland?	Saint Patrick	Saint Christopher	Saint James	Saint Peter	A	COUNTRIES
9	In which city did Bela Bartok die?	new York	Budapest	Boston	Basel	A	OPERA
10	A work depicting a naked body is called a nude. What is the meaning of the underlying Latin word?	beauty	action	purity	openness	B	LANGUAGE
11	What kind of animal is the long-tailed shrew?	rare ornamental bird	desert lizard	tropical mammal	small alligator	C	BIOLOGY
12	Who won the Academy Award for Best Actor two years in a row?	Tom Hanks	Al Pacino	Dustin Hoffman	Robert De Niro	A	MOVIE
1	What is the name of a meat dish called "steak"?	bela	icus	kiss	laci	D	KITCHEN
2	Where else are you coming according to the threatening saying?	into this dead end	to my street	to the neighboring street	into a dark little street	B	GENERAL
3	What is colstock used for?	for cracking corn	for measurement	to make music	for beverage storage	B	LANGUAGE
4	What is the genre of Offenbach's play The Beautiful Helena?	opera	operetta	ballet	tragedy	B	ART
5	The Talmud is a collection of the laws of which religion?	Islamic	Eastern Greek	Jewish	Hindu	C	RELIGION
6	What is the name of a species of bat native to South America?	book	vampire	samba	bald neck	B	BIOLOGY
1	Which "meteorological term" fits the title character of a Hidden Object novel?	red tornado	black pass	brown syrup	blonde cyclone	D	LITERATURE
2	What is organized between Paris and Dakar at the beginning of each year?	airship race	bicycle race	rally race	running race	C	SPORTS
3	Complete the proverb! "If Katalin..., Christmas..."	chilly	it knocks and splashes	quiet and wet	sunny and frosty	B	LANGUAGE
4	Mary Stuart was the queen of which country in the 16th century?	England	Scotland	France	Ireland	B	HISTORY
5	How was the fate of the losing gladiator decided in the arenas of ancient Rome?	with applause	by waving the toga	with a whistle	with a finger signal	D	HISTORY
6	Which of the following rock musicians is known by his stage name?	Elvis Presley	Michael Jackson	Mick Jagger	George Michael	D	MUSIC
7	How many masts did a traditional frigate have?	one	two	three	four	C	GENERAL
8	Which country is not a member of OPEC?	Iraq	Algeria	Venezuela	Brazil	D	COUNTRIES
9	Dante was born and exiled from which city?	Florence	Padua	Verona	Ravenna	A	LITERATURE
10	To what request did Rembrandt paint The Night Watch?	for a mayor	for a pope	for a rifle company	for a barracks	C	FINE ARTS
1	What is the usual name for a serially clumsy person?	grouse	I'm right-handed	left pheasant	right quail	C	LANGUAGE
2	Where does a murder take place in Agatha Christie's famous novel?	on the Orient Express	on steam locomotive 424	on the French super railway	on the Intercity	A	LITERATURE
3	What kind of animals does an ornithologist deal with?	with fish	with insects	with birds	with reptiles	C	BIOLOGY
4	Which of the following arts did Josephine Baker practice?	poetry	dance	sculpture	painting	B	ART
5	Which is not the title of a Shakespeare play?	Henry V	III. Richard	VIII. Henrik	Elizabeth I	D	LITERATURE
6	Why do Boccaccio's heroes leave Florence in the Decameron?	due to foreign occupation	after a fire	due to plague	due to looting by marauders	C	LITERATURE
7	Who lives in Mezkovesd according to the ethnographic name?	so many	curses	matyos	routine	C	HUNGARY
8	Which city was the II. seat of the French puppet state during World War II?	Boulogne	Vichy	Montpellier	Lyon	B	HISTORY
9	What kind of sports equipment is the toboggan?	sled	sailing boat	clay pigeon	fencing helmet	A	SPORTS
10	Who directed the classic film Bicycle Thieves?	Roberto Rossellini	Federico Fellini	Vittorio De Sica	Luchino Visconti	C	MOVIE
1	Which of the following processes thickens food?	with war	with mortar	with news	with their haunches	C	KITCHEN
2	What kind of animal does the shepherd herd?	pig	sheep	horse	cattle	A	GENERAL
3	Who is the author of the Sherlock Holmes stories?	Edgar Allan Poe	Sir Arthur Conan Doyle	Edgar Wallace	Edgar Rice Burroughs	B	LITERATURE
4	ETA is the nationalist, armed organization of which nation or ethnic group?	Irish	Basque	Palestinian	Tamil	B	GENERAL
5	Which instrument used to be called flute?	flute	violin	bassoon	trumpet	A	LANGUAGE
1	Which of the following is the name of a kitchen appliance?	pumpkin cover	pumpkin pie	they are stupid	pumpkin patch	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do you call a person who is proficient in several disciplines and has universal knowledge?	polystyrene	polygamous	polymath	polyphonic	C	LANGUAGE
3	Why is it customary to depict Eros, the god of love, in his hand in works of art?	arrow	whip	handcuffs	heart	A	RELIGION
4	What is the name of the legionnaire who replaced Ivan Gorchev in the novel Rejt?	Nobody Alphonse	Dusk Hopkins	Mr. Vanek	Humer Troppauer	C	LITERATURE
5	Where do the matadors perform?	in opera	in the circus	at a bullfight	at a horse race	C	GENERAL
6	What is the name of the Scottish engineer John McAdam?	beat	aircraft	house	locomotive	A	TECHNIQUE
7	Spice is made from the flower bud of which plant?	basil	thyme	clove	lemon grass	C	BIOLOGY
8	What was the original name of Csokonai's muse, Lilla?	Judit Santo	Anna Losonczy	Adele Brull	Vojda Julianna	D	LITERATURE
1	What does a rambling person wear?	week and month	cricket-grasshopper	goat and cat	hay and straw	A	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is used to make clothes?	muslin	musk	Muslim	mocha	A	GENERAL
3	What is the title of Miklos Feny's musical?	Do you know sandi-mandi?	Hotel Menthol	King of kisses	Multimillionaire jazz drummer	B	MUSIC
4	What quality or ability was a person called charming in the old days?	two-tone	great imagination	magical	pretty	C	LANGUAGE
5	Who was the world-famous athlete who won four gold medals at the 1936 Berlin Olympics?	Carl Lewis	Paavo Nurmi	Jesse Owens	Bob Beamon	C	SPORTS
6	What was the name of Hungary's first kindergarten?	Dollhouse	Small garden	Small house	Garden of Angels	D	GENERAL
7	What part of the plant is the plant?	crop	main root	leaf veins	bark	A	BIOLOGY
8	When was Hungary admitted to the League of Nations?	in 1922	in 1928	in 1946	in 1882	A	HISTORY
9	Prince I. Mieszko was the state founder of which nation?	Moravian	Serbian	Polish	Lithuanian	C	HISTORY
10	Which famous painter participated in the production of the film The Andalusian Dog?	Pablo Picasso	Salvador Dalí	Marc Chagall	Henri Matisse	B	MOVIE
11	Which is the only Summer Olympics where ice hockey was included among the events?	1920 Antwerp	1912 Stockholm	1928 Amsterdam	1908 London	A	SPORTS
1	According to the saying, what should the person who does not work not do?	don't even drink it	don't even eat it	don't even sleep	don't miss it	B	LANGUAGE
2	Who built acropolises?	the ancient egyptians	the vikings	the mayans	the ancient greeks	D	HISTORY
3	What is the raw material for making caramel?	sugar	sour cream	cinnamon	cocoa	A	KITCHEN
4	In which county are Lakitelek located?	Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok	Bacs-Kiskun	Csongrad	peaceful	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	What "nice message" did Endre Ady write to Leda?	lifelong	dismissal	dreamy	he did not confess	B	LITERATURE
6	What is an alpaca?	mountain animal	metal alloy	dress decoration	small bird	A	LANGUAGE
1	Who issued the Magna Carta?	Richard I the Lionheart	Landless John I	II. Janos Magnelkuli	ARC. Richard the smell of a lion	B	HISTORY
2	What does Mihaly Eisemann's hit call to: "Janos, be, ..."	in the Horvath garden in Buda	for a week at the National	up on Janos-hegy	on top of the omnibus at night	C	MUSIC
3	Where does aron Tamasi's novel abel a tunbenben take place?	in Matra	on Hargita	in Bakony	in the Tatras	B	LITERATURE
4	Who among the following was never a member of the legendary Golden Team?	Sandor Kocsis	Gyula Lorant	Dezs Novak	Jozsef Zakarias	C	SPORTS
5	Who did Ariadne's thread show the way in the labyrinth?	For a minotaur	To Perseus	To Theseus	To Minos	C	RELIGION
6	Which of the following rulers was photographed?	Maria Theresa	Queen Victoria	Mary Stuart	Catherine the Great	B	HISTORY
7	What is the title of Tamas Cseh's first LP: Letter ...?	to my aunt	to my mother	to my sister	to my girlfriend	C	MUSIC
8	Who did the nobility of the time consider responsible for the outbreak of the Dozsa peasant uprising?	Ferdinand Habsburg	Janos Szapolyai	II. Louis	Tamas Bakocz	D	HISTORY
9	In which county is the village of Zala located?	in Zala County	in Somogy county	In Heves county	in Vas County	B	GEOGRAPHY
10	Where was the previous part of John Carpenter's Escape from Los Angeles set?	in Boston	in Washington	in Atlanta	in Newyork	D	MOVIE
1	According to the saying, what is the glory of someone who presents other people's thoughts as his own?	with foreign tapes	with foreign pens	with foreign silks	with foreign glasses	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of facial hair does Jen Rejt's hero, Mr. Wagner, have?	with a dill beard	with a beard	with a blue beard	with a blond beard	C	LITERATURE
3	What does a theater's repertoire consist of?	of costumes	from plays	from sets	from props	B	THEATER
4	What is the title of Andrzej Wajda's famous film: "... and diamond"	Mud	Powder	Ash	Iron	C	MOVIE
5	What name did Edson Arantes do Nascimento become famous for?	Eusebius	Maradona	Pele	Ronaldo	C	SPORTS
6	What did Charon, known from Greek mythology, have?	donkey's head	his girlfriend	an immeasurable treasure	magic arrow	B	RELIGION
7	"The end justifies the means." To whom do we attribute the finding?	XIV. Louis	Lucrezia Borgia	Niccolò Machiavelli	Maximilien Rebespierre	C	HISTORY
1	On which part of the body did the person who quickly found a good solution in a difficult situation "fall"?	to the feet	nose	on the knees	bottom	A	LANGUAGE
2	What does he drink who drinks a schnapps?	coffee	tea	brandy	milkshake	C	GENERAL
3	Which of the following can be kappan?	rooster	wild buck	duck	goat	A	BIOLOGY
4	According to the title of the film, what Shakespeare is the Oscar-winning comedy about?	witty	ear piercing	in love	William	C	MOVIE
5	What was the poor nobility called?	they are Kamaslis	I'm sorry	they are fuseklis	palmar soles	B	HISTORY
6	What is guarded at Fort Knox, Kentucky?	the U.S. uranium stockpile	US gold reserves	CIA secret files	the strictest military secrets	B	GENERAL
7	Which metal is obtained from the mineral magnetite?	the copper	the nickel	the iron	the magnesium	C	SCIENCE
8	Which tragically memorable battle is also called the Battle of Lech field?	the Battle of Mohacs	the muhi battle	the Battle of Merseburg	the battle of Augsburg	D	HISTORY
9	Which inventor participated in the drafting of the American Declaration of Independence?	Robert Fulton	James Watt	Benjamin Franklin	Samuel Morse	C	HISTORY
10	Which famous Hungarian writer was the Minister of National Defense after the war?	Gyula Illyes	Peter Veres	Jozsef Darvas	Pal Szabo	B	HISTORY
11	How old was American astronaut John Glenn when he went into space in 1998?	sixty five	sixty seven	seventy-seven	seventy nine	C	SCIENCE
1	In what unit is the strength of the lens of the glasses measured?	in luxury	in diopters	degree	in Aras	B	SCIENCE
2	What is the name of a theater in Budapest?	Tragedy	Comedy	Melodramatic	Absurd	B	THEATER
3	In which Hungarian association did Tibor Nyilasi play football?	Doge of ujpest	Iron	Ferencvaros	Kispest Honved	C	SPORTS
4	What toy did Ferdinand Piatnik produce?	chess	porcelain doll	card	lead soldier	C	GAME
5	Whose name is the Hungarian translation of Winnie the Pooh?	arpad Toth	Golden John	Frigyes Karinthy	Noble agnes Nagy	C	LITERATURE
6	Which of the following could be crammed?	chariot	well maintained property	Cabbage dish	small child	A	LANGUAGE
7	To which country does historic Normandy belong today?	Great Britain	France	Sweden	Belgium	B	GEOGRAPHY
8	Who wore the khito?	Greeks	Egyptians	late romans	Hun leaders	A	HISTORY
1	What kind of creature is Dracula from horror movies?	werewolf	Spiderman	rain Man	vampire	D	MOVIE
2	On which continent was a country named after the freedom fighter Simon Bolivar?	in Africa	in Asia	in South America	in North America	C	COUNTRIES
3	What is Pest worth according to the title of the hit?	one morning	one evening	a body	a blade	B	MUSIC
4	Which of the following was Pallas Athena's sacred animal?	owl	rabbit	eagle	cat	A	RELIGION
5	Which breed of dog has the same name as the name of a type of internal combustion engine?	bulldog	commodore	boxer	Puli	C	LANGUAGE
6	In which of our mountains is Kab-hegy?	Beech tree	Close-up	Seedling	Bucky	D	GEOGRAPHY
7	What is the common name for ammonium hydroxide?	glycerol	nitric acid	spirit of salt and pepper	ammonia	D	SCIENCE
8	Which city became the seat of OPEC (Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) in 1965?	Zurich	Vienna	Riyadh	Cairo	B	COUNTRIES
1	Who or what is silent in the title of Anthony Hopkins' Oscar-winning horror film?	the dragons	the lambs	the fish	the psychiatrists	B	MOVIE
2	On which scale can we not measure temperature?	Reaumur	Celsius	Richter	Fahrenheit	C	SCIENCE
3	Which of the following is a novice?	new wine	student monk	the village clerk	octagonal square	B	LANGUAGE
4	A man who has fallen to his feet understands the trick. What did the word czizio originally mean?	songbird	poetic calendar	adhesive mixing	having fun	B	LANGUAGE
5	After which Turkish personality did no architectural monument survive in Pecs?	Kassim Pasha Gazi	Jakovali Hassan Pasha	Memi Pasha	Gul baby	D	HUNGARY
6	How many balls do you need to play carom billiards?	3	9	16	22	A	GAME
1	What do you call a female medical student?	ingenue	comedy	tragedienne	medical	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which is the bird whose only specimen has not yet made a summer, according to the saying?	stork	swallow	skylark	crane	B	LANGUAGE
3	Which city's bridge is the Brooklyn Bridge?	Boston	Los Angeles	new York	Washington	C	COUNTRIES
4	Which country is not a neighbor of the Czech Republic?	Austria	Poland	Ukraine	Slovakia	C	GEOGRAPHY
5	How did Pushkin die?	in lung trouble	in a duel	committed suicide	the tsar executed him	B	LITERATURE
6	Who was not the Minister of Finance in the Horn government?	Laszlo Bekesi	Kupa Mihaly	Lajos Bokros	Peter Medgyessy	B	HISTORY
1	What animal is the name of the rare cloud of small whitish balls?	commodore	polar bear	Angora	sheep	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which food is not an ingredient of lecso?	green pepper	tomato	onion	potato	D	KITCHEN
3	What kind of garden is in the title of Chekhov's play?	apple	grapey	cherry	chestnut	C	LITERATURE
4	Who did the ancient Greeks honor in the person of Thalia?	muse	once a week	siren	harpy	A	RELIGION
5	What color is the copper?	blue	red	orange	green	A	SCIENCE
6	In which of our counties is the Szechenyi Castle in Nagycenk located?	Head	Iron	Gyr-Moson-Sopron	Komarom-Esztergom	C	HUNGARY
7	In which ball game is there a hook or tempo throw?	volleyball	handball	wall ball	basketball	D	SPORTS
8	Who was the uncrowned king of reggae music?	Bill Haley	Frank Zappa	Jimi Hendrix	Bob Marley	D	MUSIC
9	Where did the Hungarian king Matthias Hunyadi die?	in Visegrad	in Buda	in Wienna	in Galamboc	C	HISTORY
10	What was the name of the American scientist Edwin Powell Hubble?	vaccine	fuel	astronomical telescope	operating system	C	TECHNIQUE
11	In which Wagner opera does Fire Magic sound?	The walker	The Nuremberg Masters	The treasure of the Rhine	Parsi wall	A	OPERA
12	What motor-driven car was the first to cross the 100 km/h mark?	steam	two-stroke, internal combustion	electricity	four-stroke, internal combustion	C	TECHNIQUE
13	Which of the following famous films was not directed by the same director?	Ben Hur	Vacation in Rome	Funny Girl	Cleopatra	D	MOVIE
1	What "milk" is the name of a dairy product?	played	ate	drank	slept	D	KITCHEN
2	Which object became one of the symbols of the tramp created by Charlie Chaplin?	glasses	walking stick	rubber stick	briefcase	B	MOVIE
3	What does an author look for in the title of Pirandello's work?	two fans	four creditors	six roles	eight characters	C	ART
4	What is a triangle?	percussion instrument	three-legged chair	triple cross	collection of laws	A	LANGUAGE
5	Burgundy, known for its history and wine, is a part of which country today?	Germany	France	The Netherlands	Belgium	B	COUNTRIES
6	Which noble family had a castle built in Godoll?	Esterhazy	Grassalkovich	Festetics	Szechenyi	B	HUNGARY
7	Whose work and style did Karinthy parody with the title Moslek-orszag?	Endre Ady	Mihaly Babits	arpad Toth	Sandor Petofi	A	LITERATURE
8	Greta Garbo plays the love interest of which historical figure in the movie Countess Walewska?	Admiral Nelson	XIV. Louis	Napoleon I	Peter the Great	C	MOVIE
1	Which of the following is a humorously hot-tempered folk expression?	Let the sowing crow sing to him!	Take it away!	Knock down the pigeon!	Let the ostrich step on its feet!	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which "sugar" is not a plant name?	sugar beet	sugar cane	sugar snap peas	sugar asparagus	D	BIOLOGY
3	Rounded to the nearest kilometer, what is the distance of marathon runners?	36 km	42 km	44 km	48 km	B	SPORTS
4	Ag is the chemical symbol of which chemical element?	argon	ratio	iron	silver	D	SCIENCE
5	What is a sonata?	music genre	verse form	wind instrument	unit of measure	A	LANGUAGE
6	In which city can you walk along the street of goldsmiths?	in Krakow	in Wienna	In Venice	in Prague	D	COUNTRIES
7	Who is Ophelia's father in Shakespeare's play?	Laertes	Polonius	Horatio	Claudius	B	LITERATURE
8	In what language did Anne Frank write her famous diary?	in Dutch	in German	in Czech	in French	A	LITERATURE
1	How does the saying express the unfavorable features of something? "Not to the bottom..."	cream	kefir	with milk	cottage cheese	C	LANGUAGE
2	The name of which literary hero is "the handsome knight"?	Tristan	Don Quixote	Ivanhoe	Cid	B	LITERATURE
3	Whose last days are in the title of Jokai's work?	eunuchs	janissaries	begs	bastards	B	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following was called masamo?	fur hunter	raccoon	hat girl	beaver	C	LANGUAGE
5	Which animal towed Lohengrin's boat in Wagner's opera?	dolphin	swan	cethal	wild duck	B	OPERA
6	Which artist born in 1684 often painted clowns and itinerant comedies?	Gillot	Boucher	Watteau	Fragonard	C	FINE ARTS
7	What is the minimum number of serves to win a game in tennis?	four	five	six	seven	A	SPORTS
8	What is the title of Villon's best-known collection of poems?	Wanderer's book	Gallows songs	A season in hell	A great testament	D	LITERATURE
1	Which of the following items of clothing was made by the szucs?	clogs	fur coat	straw hat	linen shirt	B	GENERAL
2	In which sport can you compete?	in chess	in archery	in bowling	in steeplechase	C	SPORTS
3	Which of the following is the title of an Albee play?	We are not afraid of the wolf	Man is wolf to man	Dances with Wolves	Wolf pack	A	LITERATURE
4	Where was Napoleon Bonaparte born?	In Aleppo	in Ajaccio	in Assisi	in Arezzo	B	HISTORY
1	What do you call the happy ending of movies?	happy day	happy ending	sunny end	weekend	B	GENERAL
2	What kind of animal is Ursula, the cartoon character dr. Bubo's assistant?	cow	hippopotamus	bear	kangaroo	C	MOVIE
3	What do Mexicans do with tortillas?	disciplined	they eat it	they shoot him	they dance away	B	LANGUAGE
4	What kind of building is Big Ben in London?	market place	water tower	prison	bell tower	D	COUNTRIES
5	What kind of person is Moliere's hero Harpagon, according to the title of the play?	hypochondriac	miser	I could do it	hypocrite	B	LITERATURE
6	What is a Marod man like?	infirm	quarrelsome	faithful	muscular	A	LANGUAGE
7	What is the sum of the interior angles of a triangle according to Euclidean geometry?	45°	90°	180°	360°	C	SCIENCE
8	Which animal can be associated with Saint Martin?	dog	goose	deer	dove	B	RELIGION
9	Who was the teddy bear named after?	about a wild west hero	about an animal shelter	about a toy manufacturer	about an American president	D	GENERAL
10	Actor Istvan Miko was a member of which band between 1969 and 1973?	Carthaginian	Cormorant	Kalaka	Burdock	C	MUSIC
11	Who won our first Olympic gold medal in fencing?	odon Terstyanszky	Dr. Jen Fuchs	Dr. Sandor Posta	Endre Kabos	B	SPORTS
12	Doha is the capital of which country?	Gambia	Cameroon	Qatar	Bhutan	C	COUNTRIES
1	As the saying goes, what doesn't rattle when the wind doesn't blow?	eaves	punish	blinds	skeleton	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following animal names is a first name for a type of smallpox?	wolf	donkey	dove	sheep	D	LANGUAGE
3	What did our ancestors keep in the pouch?	milk	arrows	raw meat	skins	B	HISTORY
4	Tretyakov Gallery is a landmark of which city?	 St. Petersburg	Moscow	Warsaw	Krakow	B	FINE ARTS
5	What kind of bird does Sandor Weores want to be in the poem Buba's song? "Oh, if I were…"	swallow	peacock	thrush	titmouse	D	LITERATURE
1	To what device are the horse's reins attached?	to shamfa	to the bark	to the bucket	to satrap	B	GENERAL
2	Which of the following foods can be filleted?	cauliflower	fish	mushroom	peas	B	KITCHEN
3	As a representative of which profession did Christian Dior become world famous?	car designer	fashion designer	architect	banker	B	GENERAL
4	Which of the following is the title of a Jack London novel?	Sound of silence	The Jungle Book	The word of the wild	The captain of the forest	C	LITERATURE
5	Who says it in the drama? "I came to bury Caesar, not to praise him."	Cleopatra	Antonius	Brutus	Cassius	B	LITERATURE
6	Hungarian athletes did not participate in which of the following Olympics?	1912 Stockholm	1920 Antwerp	1924 Paris	1928 Amsterdam	B	SPORTS
7	Who played the legendary role of Rhett Butler in Gone with the Wind?	Trevor Howard	Clark Gable	Leslie Howard	Bruce Willis	B	MOVIE
8	Che Guevara was the Minister of Industry of which country between 1961 and 1965?	Argentina	Cuba	Mexico	Chile	B	HISTORY
9	What did the light red wine variety, Chianti, get its name from?	about a tuscan dom	from a Sicilian mountain	from a Corsican plain	of a river in Lombardy	A	KITCHEN
10	What is Alfio's occupation in Mascagni's Peasant Honor?	squid	carrier	soldier	innkeeper	B	OPERA
1	What kind of "pasta" is the name of a soup insert?	F.A.Q	snake	frog	snail	D	KITCHEN
2	Which of the following is the name of a modified jawed 3-4 meter marine fish?	spearfish	swordfish	carabiner fish	bayonet fish	B	BIOLOGY
3	What does the person straightening his bangs do?	her skirt	his hair	her earring	his shoelaces	B	GENERAL
4	Which country's flag shows a red disc on a white background?	China	Canada	Japan	Brazil	C	COUNTRIES
5	Which of their predecessors do today's doctors swear by?	Vesalius	Galen	Hippocrates	Paracelsus	C	SCIENCE
6	What is the name of the current king of Spain?	John Zsigmond	Gusztav Karoly	John Karoly	XIII. Alphonse	C	HISTORY
7	What is another common name for the bass violin?	cello	viola	harpsichord	mandolin	B	OPERA
8	Which month used to be called the month of Saint James?	February	April	July	November	C	HISTORY
9	Which director made a film about the blood-sucking Dracula?	Francis Coppola	George Lucas	Steven Spielberg	Martin Scorsese	A	MOVIE
10	What kind of relationship did Peter Bornemissza have with Balint Balassi?	he was a fellow soldier	was his brother-in-law	was a fellow student	was his tutor	D	HISTORY
1	What "family" is in the title of Gyorgy Palasthy's highly successful youth film?	cucumber	test it	giddy	jumping jack	C	MOVIE
2	What do you call a permanent increase in the price level, a decrease in the exchange rate of money?	liquidity	stabilization	inflation	convertibility	C	GENERAL
3	Which fruit is not a stone fruit?	cherry	apricot	peach	chestnut	D	BIOLOGY
4	Which bird is believed to burn itself and then be reborn every five hundred years?	griffin	phoenix	turul	on the herd	B	RELIGION
5	Chingachguk, the hero of JF Cooper's novels, is a descendant of which Indians?	Mohicans	Dakotas	Apaches	Iroquois	A	LITERATURE
6	Who were the original agent provocateurs?	Bolshevik activists	secret police agents	fair comedians	bonapartists in hiding	B	HISTORY
7	What kind of drink is siller?	Skin	beer	vermouth	brandy	A	KITCHEN
1	What is the name of the human's back molar, which is usually the last to erupt?	tooth of envy	wisdom tooth	false teeth	poison tooth	B	BIOLOGY
2	Which of the following animals can be "kaffir"?	goat	llama	buffalo	antelope	C	BIOLOGY
3	What is the title of Andras Sut's play: "A horse shearer..."	stumbling of the tongue	betrayal	Palm Sunday	his world	C	LITERATURE
4	What is the name of a light summer hat?	palm tree	pamir	Panama	Punjab	C	GENERAL
1	Which of the following is the title of a Charlie Horvath hit?	Soda water with bubbles	Latte with two sugars	Non-alcoholic beer with foam	Ice with double whiskey	D	MUSIC
2	The national team captain of which sport is dr. Hard Denes?	handball	kayak canoe	wrestling	water polo	D	SPORTS
3	What is the popular name for a multi-sided support column?	stick	branchy	branchy	stocking stuffer	B	LANGUAGE
4	What was Helios the god of in Greek mythology?	to the moon	to the Sun	to the winds	to the seas	B	RELIGION
5	Which is not the name of the devil in Vorosmarty's Csongor and Tunde?	Currah	Bezzegh	Sulk	Berreh	B	LITERATURE
6	"Suffer this blow, but no more!" When was the previous sentence uttered?	at the last ancient Olympics	Before Koko's first professional match	at the initiation of a Shaolin priest	when knighting someone	D	GENERAL
7	Which Hungarian composer's name appears in the title of a poem by Gyula Illyes?	Kodaly	Bartok	Porch	Flour	B	LITERATURE
8	What the hell?	pants	footwear	mustache tie	rolling pin	B	LANGUAGE
9	Who is the author of one of the most successful Hungarian novels of recent years, Jadviga's pillow?	Miklos Vamos	Peter Nadas	Peter Esterhazy	Pal Zavada	D	LITERATURE
1	What ballet did Tchaikovsky write about Rose?	cotton	wool	velvet	lace	D	ART
2	What is the basic ingredient of ketchup?	beetroot	tomato	eggplant	paprika	B	KITCHEN
3	According to the hotel, what does Karinthy Frigyes not know about humor?	joke	mercy	I'm sorry	a joke	D	LITERATURE
4	What was the prohibition called in ancient natural religions?	taboo	totem	here	magic	A	GENERAL
5	What was the business of the vincellar?	noble army	courtyard kitchen	livestock	vineyard	D	GENERAL
6	Whose death is the well-known Chekhov short story about?	the music	the official	the Cossacks	the Decembrist	B	LITERATURE
7	Which biblical figure is the protagonist of the American cartoon Prince of Egypt?	Joseph	Moses	Abraham	David	B	MOVIE
1	Who poisons Snow White in the story?	the king	the stepmother	Trash bin	the head chef	B	LITERATURE
2	Which of the following is not a city on the Danube?	Vac	Mohacs	Mako	Esztergom	C	GEOGRAPHY
3	What is a tambourine?	medicine	diving board	tambourine	a weed	C	LANGUAGE
4	What is Shakespeare called?	the stratford troubadour	the Verona lover	the Avon Swan	the lion of london	C	LITERATURE
1	Who do we call armor?	babbling child	punch mixer	person who always complains	ambidextrous person	D	LANGUAGE
2	For which of the following was the sectional door used?	for nut grinding	for door hardware	to repair locks	to leaven the dough	D	GENERAL
3	Who used to live in the cluster?	soldiers	ladies of the court	guild boys	nuns	D	HISTORY
4	Which of the following is an artificial language?	Gaelic	Coptic	time	Chukchi	C	LANGUAGE
5	Which is one of the ingredients of flip type spirits?	egg	tomato juice	lemon peel	Apple	A	KITCHEN
6	Who is usually referred to as the hermit of Niklai?	Ferenc Kolcsey	Lajos Kossuth	Istvan Szechenyi	Daniel Berzsenyi	D	HISTORY
7	In which sport did the female pair Batorfi-Toth win the European Championship in 2000?	table tennis	kayak for two	sailing	tennis	A	SPORTS
8	Where does Peter Tímar's film Healthy Erotica take place?	in nut operation	in crate operation	in a liquor factory	in a kefir factory	B	MOVIE
9	Who was the first bishop of Csanad?	Tamas Bakocz	Brave John	Saint Wenceslas	For Saint Gellert	D	HISTORY
10	What outstanding event occurred in 1965 in space navigation?	the first spacewalk	man steps on the moon	the first international space flight	the journey of the first female astronaut	A	SCIENCE
11	Who does Hamlet's father's ghost call a "bloodsucker bastard" in Janos Arany's translation?	Polonius	Claudius	Laertes	Horatio	B	LITERATURE
1	What is the name of the popular children's game: "Give, king, ...!"	crown	soldier	he would go out	kaloda	B	GENERAL
2	What shade of color is scarlet?	blue	yellow	green	red	D	GENERAL
3	What ball did Verdi write an opera about?	feathered	stork	opera	masked	D	OPERA
4	What is the name of Bank ban's wife in the drama?	Gertrude	Melinda	Giselle	Isabella	B	LITERATURE
5	How many cards of the same value are there in a clean deck?	seven	six	five	four	A	GAME
6	What was called limes in ancient Rome?	the circus track	the imperial mantle	the border of the empire	the road tax	C	HISTORY
7	Which of our relatives is called in-laws according to the vernacular?	our father-in-law	our grandfather	our brother	our brother-in-law	A	LANGUAGE
8	Where do bishops wear the miter?	around their waists	on their feet	in their necks	on their heads	D	RELIGION
9	Ancient Greek theater developed from ceremonies performed in honor of which god?	Dionysus	Poseidon	Hermes	Hades	A	HISTORY
10	What does the word art nouveau mean in Hungarian?	vibrant	eventful	withdrawal	opening	C	LANGUAGE
11	Which notable library hall of our country is located in the monastery on Szent Marton Hill?	of the Pecsvarad Abbey	of the Bakonybeli Abbey	of the Pannonhalm Abbey	of Zalavar Abbey	C	HUNGARY
12	Who among the following scientists received both the Nobel Prize in Physics and Chemistry?	Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen	Marie Curie	Lord Ernest Rutherford	Irene Joliot-Curie	B	SCIENCE
13	Who won our first Olympic gold medal in individual pentathlon?	Ferenc Turk	Andras Balczo	Ferenc Nemeth	Imre Nagy	C	SPORTS
14	What prize is awarded at the Trieste Film Festival?	Golden Octopus	Golden Shell	Golden Asteroid	Golden Dove	C	MOVIE
1	What are the tankers carrying crude oil called?	clear boat	mothership	tanker	torpedo boat	C	GENERAL
2	Where did the "dog store" open in Sandor Weores's poem?	in Buda	next door to the butcher	Harap street three below	at the training camp	C	LITERATURE
3	A theater in Budapest was named after which bird?	canary	carvallo	hummingbird	cockatoo	C	THEATER
4	What does a lobbyist do?	he plays a rare sport	passionately collects something	goes to a horse race	represents interests	D	LANGUAGE
5	Who greets you like that? "Hail, Caesar. The dying salute you."	gladiators	they are legion	deposed consuls	aged senators	A	HISTORY
6	The famous representative of which art branch is the world-famous Marcel Marceau?	opera singer	pantomime artist	sculptor	pianist	B	ART
7	Who owns the hotel? "The surface chatters, the deep is silent."	Endre Ady	Attila Jozsef	Janos Batsanyi	Laszlo Nagy	B	LITERATURE
1	What was the name of the most successful Hungarian racehorse with a total of 54 victories?	Honey	My pearl	My treasure	My ruby	C	GENERAL
2	According to the saying, what means of transport does Fortuna have?	buggy	his chariot	conflict	his hero	B	GENERAL
3	In which city can the Istvan Dobo Castle Museum be viewed?	In Szigetvar	in Veszprem	In my coma	in Eger	D	HUNGARY
4	What's for dinner?	meat dish	evening prayer	a weed	metal tool	B	LANGUAGE
5	In the finale of which Verdi opera is the duet of Violetta and Alfred heard?	Tosca	Traviata	Rigoletto	Bohemian life	B	OPERA
1	What is another name for a brooch?	gram pound	brooch	sewing needle	safety pin	B	GENERAL
2	According to the saying attributed to Vespasian, what does money not have?	value	bouquet	smell	his voice	C	GENERAL
3	What was called dezma in the Middle Ages?	wooden bath equipment	spoils of war	serf service	ground grain	C	HISTORY
4	According to folk poetry, whose yard did I plow?	the judge's	my baby	the emperor's	the ispan's	C	LITERATURE
5	Which bird is not a thrush?	robin	nightingale	pheasant	garden rusttail	C	BIOLOGY
6	Which religion worships the Ark of the Covenant?	Jewish	Christian	Islamic	Buddhist	A	RELIGION
7	Who won our first gold medal at the Sydney Olympics?	agnes Kovacs	Csollany New Year's Eve	Tima the Great	Gyorgy Kolonics	C	SPORTS
8	Who has not performed as an actor?	Sandor Petofi	Golden John	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Soldier Jozsef	C	LITERATURE
1	How far does a heated argument "go" according to the saying?	to the edge of the axe	to the point of a knife	to the hilt	to slingshot shaft	B	LANGUAGE
2	Where did the person who got on his train travel?	on water	on a country road	by rail	in air	A	GENERAL
3	Which of the following was a non-Germanic ethnic group?	gepida	Gothic	franc	Hun	D	HISTORY
4	Who was the President of the Republic of Yugoslavia between 1953 and 1980?	Todor Zhivkov	Josip Broz Tito	Slobodan Milosevic	Franjo Tudjman	B	HISTORY
5	In which sport did Pal Schmitt, the president of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, win an Olympic gold medal?	fencing	pentathlon	water polo	athletics	A	SPORTS
6	Who did Amundsen precede by barely a month when discovering the South Pole?	Peary	Bering	Scott	Hillary	C	SCIENCE
1	What do you call a person fighting for women's equality?	philatelist	futurist	fatalistic	feminist	D	GENERAL
2	What kind of pass is called a pass in football?	span	fingertip	nail	claw	C	SPORTS
3	What is the title of the ruler of Japan?	King	emperor	Padishah	Khan	B	HISTORY
4	What is the name of the witches' night horn?	witch monday	witch wednesday	witch thursday	witch saturday	D	GENERAL
5	Nicosia is the capital of which country?	Colombia	Cyprus	Sri Lanka	Malta	B	COUNTRIES
6	In which of Istvan Szabo's films is Klaus Maria Brandauer not the main character?	Mephisto	Colonel Redl	Hanussen	Trust	D	MOVIE
7	What is the raw material of stalactite?	clay	limestone	granite	quartz	B	GEOGRAPHY
8	What Nobel Prize did Guglielmo Marconi receive in 1909?	literary	peace	physical	chemical	C	SCIENCE
9	Which biblical person can Mrs. Potiphar be associated with?	David	Joseph	Moses	Samson	B	RELIGION
10	Who introduced the rabies vaccination in Hungary?	Albert Szent-Gyorgyi	Endre Hogyes	Sandor Koranyi	age Janos Bokay	B	BIOLOGY
11	In which movie did Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman not star together?	Far far away	Like lightning	Cocktail	Eyes wide shut	C	MOVIE
1	What do you call a novice driver?	medlar	date	raisins	leprechaun	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of flavored cream is used to make the cake called trigojancsi?	chocolate	almond	cottage cheese	chestnut	A	KITCHEN
3	Who did the captain of the Tenkes fight against?	Russians	Tatars	Turkish	boys	D	LITERATURE
4	In which county is Mohacs located?	Somogy	Baranya	Csongrad	Head	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	Which band won the dance song festival with the song "When I was still a little boy"?	Metro	Elijah	Hungary	Omega	B	MUSIC
6	What was called a convention during the great French revolution?	the revolutionary calendar	the constituent assembly	an execution device	a parliamentary group	B	HISTORY
7	Who played the male lead in Bob Fosse's world-famous film Cabaret?	Ryan O'Neal	Michael York	Robert Redford	Jeff Bridges	B	MOVIE
1	What kind of "skin" is the military uniform called?	dragon	angel	dog	Shoot	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which is the most common vowel in the Hungarian language?	the	e	i	She	B	LANGUAGE
3	What famous factory was founded by Ettore Bugatti?	car factory	brewery	textile factory	cheese factory	A	TECHNIQUE
4	On which continent is Kilimanjaro located?	Africa	South America	Asia	Australia	A	GEOGRAPHY
5	Under what title did Prokofiev write a musical fairy tale? "Peter and the ..."	bear	wolf	wild duck	little rabbit	B	OPERA
6	What kind of hero is Aladar Wendriner and Jen Rejt?	Private Secretary	fugitive legionnaire	circus lion	bored golden boy	C	LITERATURE
7	What are the bridges in the title of Clint Eastwood's romantic film?	the sighs	the heart	Venice	Iowa	B	MOVIE
8	Which singer's original family name is Ciccone?	Cher	Enya	Madonna	Suzanne Vega	C	MUSIC
9	Who lit the Olympic flame in Sydney?	Marion Jones	Cathy Freeman	Susan O'Neill	Ian Thorpe	B	SPORTS
10	Who made the portrait II. About Pope Gyula?	Veronese	Tintoretto	Raffaello	Giorgione	C	FINE ARTS
1	Which part of the grape has the same name as the title of Marx's best-known work?	duck	cluster	tendril	capital	D	GENERAL
2	What is saccharin used for?	for sweetening	for salting	for painting	for gluing	A	GENERAL
3	What are the half-human, half-horse creatures of Greek mythology called?	sphinx	centaur	satyr	growl	B	RELIGION
4	What is hecsedli jam made of?	from plums	from rose hips	from strawberries	of raspberries	B	KITCHEN
5	What is the nationality of filmmaker Ingmar Bergman?	Danish	Norwegian	Swedish	Finnish	C	MOVIE
6	In which sport did Matt Biondi win seven medals at the 1988 Seoul Olympics?	in athletics	in swimming	in gymnastics	rowing	B	SPORTS
7	Which of the following is an alloy of two metals called bronze?	copper and lead	copper and tin	iron and nickel	copper and silver	B	SCIENCE
8	For which era was the braided style typical?	Early 16th century	Early 17th century	Second half of the 18th century	Second half of the 19th century	C	HISTORY
1	Which of the following is the name of a grape variety?	bride	girl	lady	baby boy	B	BIOLOGY
2	Whose performance was the hit Never Say! the song?	Enik Eszenyi	Judit Hernadi	Irene Psota	Mari Torcsik	B	MUSIC
3	Which state's military commanders were the shoguns in the Middle Ages?	Japan	China	Inca Empire	Mayan Empire	A	HISTORY
4	Who gets involved in adventures in King Arthur's court in Mark Twain's novel?	on a floor	a yankee	a burka	a hispanic	B	LITERATURE
5	Which film is not based on the work of Kurt Vonnegut?	Our night mother	It's a catch 22	Breakfast of champions	Slaughterhouse number five	B	MOVIE
6	Which professions work with fondant?	confectioners	tailors	dental technicians	goldsmiths	A	GENERAL
7	Which country did not belong to II. between the Axis Powers during World War II?	Germany	Japan	England	Italy	C	HISTORY
8	Gilda was the daughter of which Verdi opera hero?	Don Carlos	Rigoletto	Nabucco	Othello	B	OPERA
9	Saint Elizabeth of arpad-hazi was the daughter of which of our kings?	II. Andrew	Saint Laszlo	ARC. Bela	St. Stephen	A	HISTORY
10	Which types of animals are field, Greenland, polar, desert, Tibetan, mountain?	mouse	bear	fox	rabbit	D	BIOLOGY
1	What do you call an immature, irresponsible child?	pintsy	foxy	dachshund	pit bull	C	GENERAL
2	What flower is in the title of Imre Kalman's operetta?	daffodil of nice	Marseille mimosa	poppy of paris	violet of montmartre	D	OPERA
3	What kind of animal is the futrinka?	beetle	rodent mammal	Peruvian poison frog	flightless bird	A	BIOLOGY
4	What is the title of Miklos Vamos' recently published book?	The novel of our fathers	Book of fathers	There is only one father	Fathers and sons	B	LITERATURE
5	Where can you see the National Historical Memorial Park in Hungary?	An antidote	Szekesfehervar	Somogyvar	Esztergom	A	HUNGARY
6	What is the occupation of the hero played by Gregory Peck in the movie Roman Vacation?	bodyguard	sinewy	journalist	photographer	C	MOVIE
7	What is the horse made of?	made of cotton	made of wool	calfskin	synthetic fiber	B	GENERAL
1	What comes when you eat, according to the saying?	unexpected guest	inspiration	appetite	stomach cramps	C	LANGUAGE
2	Whose residence in London is Buckingham Palace?	the prime minister	the Queen	the bishop	the mayor	B	COUNTRIES
3	What is the game called svindli played with?	with dice	with bowling dolls	with a card	with a skipping rope	C	GAME
4	What is the common name for an aqueous solution of hydrogen chloride?	common salt	nitric acid	hydrochloric acid	formic acid	C	SCIENCE
5	Whose greeting is immortalized in the title of a well-known Jozsef Attila poem?	Leo Tolstoy	Maxim Gorky	Thomas Mann	Stefan Zweig	C	LITERATURE
6	Which Olympic champion wrestler was the victim of a car accident?	Istvan Kozma	Gyula Bobis	odon Zombori	Miklos Szilvasy	A	SPORTS
7	What was the original occupation of the Apostle Peter?	teacher	fisherman	suitcase	potter	B	RELIGION
8	In which city and its surroundings is Verdi's opera Traviata set?	Rome	Bordeaux	Paris	Seville	C	OPERA
1	Which sea often appears in Hungarian folk tales?	Burkus	Operative	Bird's eye view	Seven miles	B	LITERATURE
2	What kind of food is Roquefort?	salami	cheese	sausage	cottage cheese	B	KITCHEN
3	In which month is Medard's day, which promises 40 days of rain?	March	May	June	September	C	GENERAL
4	What piece of clothing is mentioned in the title of Gogol's well-known short story from 1842?	hat	robe	cloak	to earn	C	LITERATURE
5	Mazurka is the national dance of which country?	Bulgaria	Czech Republic	Ukraine	Poland	D	COUNTRIES
6	Who succeeded Janos Kadar as secretary general of the MSZMP?	Karoly Grosz	Mattyas Szuros	Raw Rezs	Imre Pozsgay	A	HISTORY
7	What is flooding?	wind instrument	cake	shotgun	straw hat	B	LANGUAGE
8	Who wrote the piano piece Revolutionary Etude?	Chopin	Schubert	Flour	Beethoven	A	OPERA
1	What kind of piggies are there in fairy tales?	trumpet nose	short tail	bath in a puddle	got mixed up in bran	B	LITERATURE
2	What is the Hungarian name of the hydroglobe bus?	fireball	globe	space rocket	water tower	D	LANGUAGE
3	What kind of animal is the compo?	tropical monkey	big haired dog	forest bird	fish	D	BIOLOGY
4	Whose wife was Berta Boncza?	Golden John	Mihaly Babits	Mor Jokai	Endre Ady	D	LITERATURE
5	In which of our counties is Harkany, famous for its spa, located?	Baranya	Somogy	Hajdu-Bihar	Csongrad	A	GEOGRAPHY
6	Under what title did Debbussy write an orchestral work?	One hell of a morning	Night of a satyr	Afternoon of a Faun	Dawn of a Nymph	C	OPERA
7	Which American president announced the economic policy known as the New Deal?	FD Roosevelt	JF Kennedy	H. S. Truman	TW Wilson	A	HISTORY
8	Which group asked: "Do you have animals?"	Kalaka	100 Folk Celsius	Burdock	Phonograph	A	MUSIC
1	What kind of "hunter" can be seen on the top of the Hungarian card?	plugs	cleats	it sucks	sow	C	GAME
2	The old name of which disease is the flu?	flu	rheumatism	measles	mumps	B	BIOLOGY
3	Tirana is the capital of which country?	Albania	Bulgaria	Bosnia and Herzegovina	Libya	A	COUNTRIES
4	What does someone who eats soda eat?	spring onions	rye bread	smoked meat	pickled fish	C	KITCHEN
5	Which piece of furniture was named after a French lady who was a contemporary of Napoleon?	the louse	the mattress	the rekami's	the sofa	C	GENERAL
6	According to the Hungarian folk song, which tree blooms on the banks of the Tisza?	almond	willow	chestnut	cherry	A	LITERATURE
7	Who founded a university in Nagyszombat in 1635?	Miklos Zrínyi	Gaspar Heltai	Peter Pazmany	Gaspar Karoli	C	HUNGARY
8	Which biblical female figure saved the Jews from extermination in the Persian Empire?	Judith	Zsuzsanna	Ester	Rebecca	C	RELIGION
1	How does the saying continue? "It's all good if..."	it starts well	it ends well	it's over in good time	its ratings are good	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which "rose" is not a plant?	peony	tea rose	laurel rose	wind rose	D	BIOLOGY
3	What animal does the little prince tame in the famous novel?	lion	fox	a bear	dolphin	B	LITERATURE
4	Which of our organs has two atria and two ventricles?	lungs	heart	kidney	brain	B	BIOLOGY
5	In which city is the world-famous Scala opera house located?	new York	Milan	Paris	Sydney	B	COUNTRIES
6	Which Hungarian king founded the Tihany Abbey?	Andras I	Bela I	Stephen I	Laszlo I	A	HISTORY
7	What was the "ninth passenger" in the sci-fi The Eighth Passenger: Death?	a dog	a cat	a skin mouse	a snake	B	MOVIE
8	Where is the Matra Museum located in Hungary?	Excellent	in Eger	On Gyongyos	Matrafureden	C	HUNGARY
9	Which fruit is not related to the plum?	almond	peach	sour cherry	walnut	D	BIOLOGY
10	Where can we visit the memorial museum of our famous painter Sandor Sznyi?	Nagymaros	in Visegrad	In Zebegeny	Domos	C	HUNGARY
11	Which Spanish soccer player's "nickname" is Vulture?	Alfredo di Stefano	Emilio Butragueno	Carlos Santillana	Amaneio Amaro	B	SPORTS
12	What does the doctor examine when palpating the mandible?	the nose	the forehead	the jaw	the knee	C	BIOLOGY
1	One of the elbow diseases got its name from which sport?	tennis	boxing	golf	chess	A	BIOLOGY
2	On which continent is rice native?	in Africa	in Asia	in South America	in Europe	B	BIOLOGY
3	Under what title did Mozart write music? "A little …"	cat music	night music	winter music	military music	B	OPERA
4	What kind of building is the tomb?	Arabic school	grave monument	bath	clock tower	B	ARCHITECTURE
5	Which of the following is called the French Four?	an illegal game of chance	a dance	a four-horse cog	a card game	B	LANGUAGE
6	According to the title of the drama, what kind of youth is Osborne's play about?	callous	idle	lost	furious	D	LITERATURE
7	In which city is the International Court of Justice located?	Hague	Geneva	Brussels	Paris	A	COUNTRIES
8	Who is the co-director of the film The World of Silence, which was awarded the Palme d'Or at Cannes?	David Attenborough	Gerard Durrell	Jacques-Yves Cousteau	Thor Heyerdahl	C	MOVIE
1	What power is the official armed organ of a social order usually called?	shoulder	head	heart	damage	D	GENERAL
2	Where did he go who was in a hurry to get naked?	to the laundry room	for a night out	to the police	to a hairdresser	A	GENERAL
3	What were the officials serving the Alexander Bach system called?	Bach rascals	Bach notes	Bach Hussars	Bach brigades	C	HISTORY
4	What kind of building was the Cloaca Maxima in ancient Rome?	circus	sewer	library	floor heating system	B	HISTORY
5	Which famous ship took part in Columbus's 1492 expedition?	Victoria	A pint	Mayflower	Fram	B	HISTORY
6	Sugar Bottle Mountain rises above which city?	Tokyo	Rio de Janeiro	Istanbul	Mexico City	B	COUNTRIES
7	Silicosis is a disease of which organ?	heart	lungs	brain	liver	B	BIOLOGY
8	What is the occupation of Petfi's hero, Fejenagy with broad palms?	church servant	innkeeper	blacksmith	baker	C	LITERATURE
9	Ingmar Bergman directed a film from which of Mozart's works?	Escape from the harem	Don Giovanni	The magic flute	The Marriage of Figaro	C	MOVIE
10	From whose reign was the tithe taken in our country?	Stephen I	Andras I	Geza I	Laszlo I	A	HISTORY
11	What kind of creature is the cypress?	plant	fish	flightless bird	maned badger	A	BIOLOGY
12	At which Olympics did we win both gold and bronze medals in the hammer throw?	Rome 1960	Mexico 1968	London 1948	Helsinki 1952	D	SPORTS
1	What kind of Miska was the title character of the highly successful Hungarian musical film?	Magnet	Funny	Magnate	He's a torchbearer	C	MOVIE
2	Where does a lady wear a stole?	in her hair	on his shoulder	in his ear	on his feet	B	GENERAL
3	Which of the following was not an ancient Greek architectural style?	Doric	ion	Corinthian	Akkadian	D	ARCHITECTURE
4	Where did the Kuruc army lay down its arms in 1711?	At Becsujhely	on the plain of Majtyny	at Cluj	You would expect	B	HISTORY
5	What color flag is used in Formula 1 races to indicate that the race has been interrupted?	red	green	yellow	blue	A	SPORTS
1	What is billiards used for?	with a spear	with a crank	with a dachshund	with cues	D	GAME
2	In which football club team did Albert Floria play for more than twenty years?	Doge of ujpest	Iron	Honved Bp	Ferencvaros	D	SPORTS
3	Who promises easy dreams in the title of Andras Sut's work?	her mother	his sister	his nanny	your anesthetist	A	LITERATURE
4	What is the "holy day" of the week in Judaism?	the sunday	the saturday	the wednesday	it's tuesday	B	RELIGION
5	Whose son is King Csaba from Monda?	arpad	Attila	Buddha	Cotton wool	C	HISTORY
6	Near which city is Mozart's opera The Marriage of Figaro set?	Venice	Florence	Seville	Paris	C	OPERA
7	How does the picador take part in the bullfight?	on foot	sitting on horseback	sitting on a donkey	sitting on a bull's back	B	GENERAL
1	What do you call a bad actor who strives for cheap effects?	poppy	ipiapacs	bum	rascal	D	THEATER
2	What knights did Shakespeare write about?	salt-free	became a horse	rode a horse	horse-shaped	C	LITERATURE
3	What is a prudish person like?	talkative	mood swings	diligent	hypocritical	D	LANGUAGE
4	Who are the main characters of the musical film Pomade?	soldiers	high school students	university students	hairdressers	B	MOVIE
5	Which of the following is not a rodent?	beaver	hamster	chinchilla	weasel	D	BIOLOGY
6	Which of the following is one of the ingredients of barbecue?	egg	sugar	sour cream	cheese	B	KITCHEN
7	Which of the following Eastern European languages is a Neo-Latin language?	Bulgarian	Turkish	Romanian	Serbian	C	LANGUAGE
8	What is the historical auxiliary science dealing with coats of arms called?	numismatics	heraldry	paleography	chronology	B	LANGUAGE
9	What was the origin of the famous writer George Bernard Shaw?	Irish	Scotsman	Welsh	English	A	LITERATURE
1	Which of the following is the name of a pastry?	rascal	puff	crunch	snap	B	KITCHEN
2	What kind of domestic animal was called in the vernacular "cacor"?	puli	kandur	duck	foal	B	LANGUAGE
3	In which sport can you fly more than 180 meters without wings?	ski jumping	long jump	tower jump	show jumping	A	SPORTS
4	Who played the main role in the musical film Singing in the Rain?	Fred Astaire	Gene Kelly	Tony Curtis	John Travolta	B	MOVIE
5	The typical habitat of which spider species is the tropical zone?	Crusader spider	bird spider	wolf spider	zigzags	B	BIOLOGY
6	Which group sang "Fly away, little bird"?	Edda	Republic	Bonanza Banzai	Manhattan	B	MUSIC
7	What exactly is China's form of government?	Republic	socialist republic	People's Republic	democratic republic	C	COUNTRIES
8	Who wrote the lyrics to the musical Imaginary Report on an American Pop Festival?	Sztevanovity Dusan	John Brody	Anna Adamis	Geza Beremenyi	C	MUSIC
9	Who was the first European to see the Pacific Ocean?	Magellan	Balboa	Bartolomeo Diaz	James Cook	B	HISTORY
1	What is the name of the unnecessary third person in the company of a couple in love?	voles	baby	elephant	duck	C	GENERAL
2	According to the Bible, who was the mother of Cain and Abel?	Rebecca	Ester	Eve	Sarah	C	RELIGION
3	Where is a lock-up ordered in the title of the Rejt novel?	in the advanced garrison	at the Grand Hotel	on the lost cruiser	in the city of silent revolvers	B	LITERATURE
4	In which game is the term from the pen used?	chess	poker	billiards	domino	C	GAME
5	In what field of art did the Ilf-Petrov duo work?	painting	acting	literature	dance	C	ART
6	Which of the following is considered a separate accessory when buying a computer?	motherboard	monitor	keyboard	sound card	D	GENERAL
7	From which work of Zsigmond Moricz was the musical made?	Oh my god	Pansy	Relatives	Be good till death	D	MUSIC
8	Who wrote an opera about Prince Igor?	Borogin	Mussorgsky	Tchaikovsky	Glinka	A	OPERA
9	What vehicle is the title character of Buster Keaton's movie The General?	steamboat	aircraft	locomotive	submarine	C	MOVIE
10	What was the origin of the world-famous actress Sarah Bernhardt?	French	German	English	American	A	MOVIE
1	What does DNA stand for?	denatured alcohol	dinosaur	Darwinism	deoxyribonucleic acid	D	LANGUAGE
2	What shade of color is crimson?	green	blue	red	yellow	C	GENERAL
3	What kind of bear is Winnie the Pooh according to Milne's fairy tale?	He has a burning brain	It makes little sense	Teddide-teddoda	Powerful	B	LITERATURE
4	Which country does the island of Capri belong to?	France	Italy	Greece	Spain	B	GEOGRAPHY
1	Under what conditions are all cows black, according to the saying?	during a power outage	in the middle of the tunnel	in the dark	during a total solar eclipse	C	LANGUAGE
2	Where is the one standing on a step?	in a boat	on the stairs	on a grassy meadow	on the bridge	B	GENERAL
3	What do they do?	meat	socks	mirror	book	C	GENERAL
4	How many doors does Bela Judit Bartok open in his opera Castle of the Bluebeard Prince?	dew	week	ten	thirteen	B	OPERA
5	When was the Soviet Union founded?	in 1917	in 1922	in 1934	in 1945	B	HISTORY
6	Which statement is not true about the kiss?	greyish, black plumage	crow-like	lives in company	it does not occur in our country	D	BIOLOGY
7	Bela Komjadi was an excellent manager of which sport?	swimming	fencing	football	water polo	D	SPORTS
8	Whose work is the novel The Old Man?	Elek Gozsdu	Sandor Brody	Kalman Mikszath	Geza Gardonyi	D	LITERATURE
1	What does someone who makes a tense situation more difficult?	takes wood to the forest	fan the flame	sprinkles water into the sea	sprinkle sugar on the honey	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is the name of a fish that can inflate its own body?	Puffer fish	cone fish	pyramid fish	gourd	A	BIOLOGY
3	Szent Mark ter is a notable place in which city?	Venice	Paris	Rome	Madrid	A	COUNTRIES
4	Which of the following was a common type of tax in the Middle Ages?	steam generator	fog generator	smoke detector	dew tax	C	HISTORY
5	What do abstract artists spend on their work?	use of colors	object representation	contact with the outside world	revealing their identity	B	ART
6	What is the official currency in Indonesia?	dollar	pound	rupee	ringgit	C	COUNTRIES
7	In which sport did Sandor Bardosi win a silver medal at the Sydney Olympics?	boxing	wrestling	kayak canoe	weight-lifting	B	SPORTS
8	General Noriega was the dictator of which country?	Mexico	Philippines	Nicaragua	Panama	D	HISTORY
1	What does the saying have to do with work?	his legion	banner	his brigade	commando	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is the economic boom called in economics?	tincture	boom	coloratura	score	B	GENERAL
3	What is snuff made from?	resin	hops	tobacco	poppy	C	GENERAL
4	How many strings does a violin have?	4	5	6	8	A	OPERA
5	What kind of combat vehicle was the Enola Gay of tragic memory?	tank	mothership	aircraft	submarine	C	HISTORY
6	What is the entertainment district of London called?	Westminster	East End	Mayfair	Soho	D	COUNTRIES
7	Golda Meir was the prime minister of which country?	India	Israel	Republic of South Africa	Argentina	B	HISTORY
8	Which Hungarian poet wrote about himself? "It was fun and good, and I'm sure if he was hurt, he really believed it."	Endre Ady	Mihaly Babits	Sandor Petofi	Attila Jozsef	D	LITERATURE
9	Who was the German emperor who agreed with the Pope in the Concordat of Worms in 1122?	III. Henrik	III. Konrad	Henry V	II. Frederick	C	HISTORY
10	In which city can the Turr Istvan Museum be visited?	Sixty	Dad	Trouble	Grandmother	C	HUNGARY
1	Which type of fish is called a skinny person?	carp	pike	herring	bream	D	LANGUAGE
2	Baron Julius Haynau was an officer in the army of which state?	Prussian	Austrian	French	Russian	B	HISTORY
3	What is one of the ingredients of grenadier mars?	potato	poppy	cabbage	walnut	A	KITCHEN
4	With what title did Ferenc Karinthy write a novel?	Roman summer	Autumn in Paris	Petersburg winter	Spring in Budapest	D	LITERATURE
5	Salvador Allende, who was assassinated in 1973, was the president of which country?	Portugal	Argentina	Chile	Mexico	C	HISTORY
6	Which ballet features mice?	Tchaikovsky: The Nutcracker	On the other hand: Spartacus	Delibes: Coppelia	Tchaikovsky: Sleeping Beauty	A	ART
7	Where is the "Pepi-kert" arboretum located?	Zircon	Vacott	in Debrecen	On deer	D	HUNGARY
8	What is called a space intestine?	spaceships cargo space	organ of nettles	black holes	organs of birds	B	LANGUAGE
1	According to legend, what did the Romans sprinkle on the ruins of Carthage?	with salt	with pepper	with basil	with oregano	A	HISTORY
2	Which country is the only neighbor of Portugal?	France	Germany	Spain	Greece	C	GEOGRAPHY
3	What nationality was Nicolaus Copernicus, the famous astronomer?	Polish	Greek	Russian	German	A	SCIENCE
4	In which field of art was Miklos Borsos active?	classical music	sculpture	folk dance	classical ballet	B	ART
5	What does a protester do?	revealed in advance	makes a will	protest	takes patronage	C	LANGUAGE
6	Trachoma is a disease of which organ?	ear	lungs	eye	stomach	C	BIOLOGY
7	Which of the following is not an Asian martial art?	karate	jujitsu	taekwondo	feng shui	D	SPORTS
8	Which of the following can be a resonator?	the old name of the guide	theater role	Shepherd dog	customs official	B	LANGUAGE
1	According to the vernacular, what kind of person is potrohos?	envious	potty	silly	balding	B	LANGUAGE
2	Latin is the official language of which mini-state?	Monaco	San Marino	Andorra	Vatican	D	COUNTRIES
3	Whose name is the university in Budapest named after?	Lorand Eotvos	Solid Leo	Ede Teller	anyos Jedlik	A	HUNGARY
4	What is the sign of time in physics?	s	t	r	i	B	SCIENCE
5	On which continent is Lake Titicaca located?	South America	Asia	Africa	Australia	A	GEOGRAPHY
6	What knights are in the title of Shakespeare's work?	without keels	rode a horse	Templar	crusader	B	LITERATURE
7	What ministerial position did Balin Homan fill?	finance	religion and public education	foreign affairs	military affairs	B	HISTORY
8	Who was the main character of the classic gangster film The Scarred Man modeled after?	Bugsy Siegel	Al Capone	Lucky Luciano	Frank Costello	B	MOVIE
9	Who were the Danaids in Greek mythology?	goddesses of fate	wife murderers	Illegitimate daughters of Zeus	sea fairies	B	RELIGION
10	FIDE is the international federation of which sport?	gymnastics	turf ball	fencing	chess	D	SPORTS
1	Which meteorological term is the name of a castle type or part of a castle?	shower	cloud	breeze	frost	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do we call damaged works of art that are not in their original state?	bullfighter	torsion	torso	tortillas	C	LANGUAGE
3	In which sport do they "swing" on the horse?	gymnastics	bicycle	gear drive	pentathlon	A	SPORTS
4	How do we write the following word correctly according to the rules of Hungarian spelling?	millennium	millennium	millennium	millennium	D	LANGUAGE
1	What do people do when they detox?	are detoxified	further training	demoted	enlisted	A	LANGUAGE
2	For what part are sesame grown?	for its oily seeds	for its edible root tubers	for its woody stem	for its fibrous leaves	A	BIOLOGY
3	How many gold medals did we win at the Sydney Olympics?	six	eight	ten	eleven	B	SPORTS
4	Thomas Mann wrote a novel about which biblical character and his brothers?	About Noah	About Jozsef	About David	About Elijah	B	LITERATURE
5	How is Don Carlos related to King Philip in Verdi's opera?	son	his brother	his father	nephew	A	OPERA
6	Who was the king who was executed during the French Revolution?	XIV. Louis	XV. Louis	XVI. Louis	XVIII Louis	C	HISTORY
7	Which literary hero did the legendary Imre Soos play on film?	Toldi Miklos	John was brave	Matyit Ludas	Liliomfit	C	MOVIE
8	Who was the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union at the time of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster?	Brezhnev	Gorbachev	Andropov	Chernenko	B	HISTORY
9	Which band's LPs were "Back to the City" and "On the Road to Earth"?	Scorpio	Mini	Carthage	LGT	B	MUSIC
1	Which word denotes a type of saw?	bow	tape	bouquet	cord	B	GENERAL
2	What color scheme does someone who is attracted to beige things like?	violet blue	sand color	bright green	blood red	B	GENERAL
3	In which city is Oz found in the fairy tale?	opal	emerald	sapphire	topaz	B	LITERATURE
4	What was the abbreviation of the term kuk used during the Monarchy?	Austrian and Hungarian	conservative and civil	free and equal	imperial and royal	D	HISTORY
5	In which sport did Norbert Novenyi win a gold medal at the 1980 Moscow Olympics?	kickboxing	wrestling	weight-lifting	boxing	B	SPORTS
6	When were the tombs called dolmens built?	in the stone age	at the end of antiquity	at the beginning of the Middle Ages	in the new age	A	HISTORY
1	According to the saying, what is in the image of a naughty, disrespectful person?	red pimple	false wrinkle	thick skin	fresh scar	C	LANGUAGE
2	A mosque is a church of which religion?	Catholic	Buddhist	Islamic	Jewish	C	RELIGION
3	Which tree also gives its name to a greenish-colored, unpleasant-smelling beetle?	cherry	ash	her fiance	beech	B	BIOLOGY
4	What is the capital of Croatia?	Split	Zagreb	Ljubljana	Belgrade	B	COUNTRIES
5	Juan Domingo Peron was the president of which South American country?	Argentina	Brazil	Chile	Peru	A	HISTORY
6	How many cards of the same value does the poker player have if he has a drill?	two	three	four	five	B	GAME
7	What is the lord of in the title of Golding's novel?	the butterflies	the flies	the mountains	the fields	B	LITERATURE
8	Who was the minister of justice in the Batthyany government of 1848?	Bertalan Szemere	Gabor Klauzal	Lajos Kossuth	Ferenc Deak	D	HISTORY
9	Which poet was commemorated by "Who saw me?" the Hungarian film?	Endre Ady	Miklos Radnoti	Attila Jozsef	Sandor Petofi	A	MOVIE
10	Which Russian statesman had make-believe villages built on the occasion of the Tsarina's visit?	Rasputin	Patyomkin	Kutuzov	Kolchak	B	HISTORY
1	What is turpentine?	home decor	sharp turn	childhood illness	solvent and cleaning agent	D	GENERAL
2	What did our adventuring ancestors carry in their coats?	their hair	their spoils of war	their food	their bows	A	HISTORY
3	The Fire Tower is the symbol of which of our cities?	Mouse	Dad	Sopron	Kszeg	C	HUNGARY
4	Who is generally considered to be the author of the Iliad and the Odyssey?	Anacreon	Homer	Xenophon	Aeschylus	B	LITERATURE
5	Whose "fairy tales" did Ravel write the orchestral suite about?	Uncle Remus	Santa	Snow White	Mother Goose	D	OPERA
6	Which monastic order was founded by Saint Ignatius of Loyola?	Capuchin	Benedictine	Jesuit	Dominican	C	RELIGION
7	In which sport have we never won an Olympic gold medal?	discus throwing	judo	sport shooting	equestrian sport	D	SPORTS
1	What is set up between the ball and the goal during a free kick?	queue wall	rabi bite	firewall	Spanish snack	A	SPORTS
2	What is the well-known musical tragedy about the three nights?	one Love	a crime	a journey	a ghost	A	OPERA
3	Which word is the name of a flower part?	spoon	mug	Cup	fork	C	BIOLOGY
4	Which of the following female names is of Hungarian origin?	Catherine	Ilona	Maria	Esme	D	LANGUAGE
5	In which dramas did the choir performing sword songs have an important role for the first time?	ancient greek	English Renaissance	French classicist	German avant-garde	A	THEATER
6	Who was the founder of the Church of England?	Elizabeth I	VIII. Henrik	Oliver Cromwell	William of Orange	B	HISTORY
7	What did Hugo Junkers become famous for producing?	panel houses	airplanes	steam cars	telephone exchanges	B	TECHNIQUE
8	Who was the first editor-in-chief of the West?	Hatvany Lajos	Endre Ady	Ignotus	Oskar Jaszi	C	LITERATURE
1	Which "honey" is the name of a sweet?	Tatar	Turkish	bitch	labanc	B	KITCHEN
2	In what sport was Arnold Schwarzenegger world champion?	body-building	tennis	chess	pole vault	A	SPORTS
3	Which of the following is not an Australian animal?	dingo	koala	dromedary	emu	C	BIOLOGY
4	What is the title of Ferenc Santa's well-known work?	Ten days	Five more minutes	Twenty o'clock	Just a few years	C	LITERATURE
5	Which social class were called gentry in our country?	destitute serfs	impoverished nobles	free urban craftsmen	wealthy tycoons	B	HISTORY
6	In which year did Hungary become a republic again?	1985	1989	1990	1992	B	HISTORY
7	What is the nationality of Formula 1 world champion Jacques Villeneuve?	Swiss	Canadian	French	Belgian	B	SPORTS
8	Who or what was called a cenk in the old days?	cheap ore	wretched man	worthless change	Pine tree	B	LANGUAGE
9	Which Hungarian painter was a baron?	adam Manyki	Gyula Benczur	Karoly Ferenczy	Laszlo Mednyanszky	D	FINE ARTS
10	Which work did Kodaly write for the 50th anniversary of the unification of Pest, Buda and obuda?	Budavar Te Deum	Missa brevis	Psalmus Hungaricus	The peacock took off	C	OPERA
1	What do they do with the ocarina?	they drink it	they blow it	are harvested	they spend it	B	LANGUAGE
2	Where did the village girls gather for social work and fun?	in the crochet	in the spinning wheel	in the weaving	in the hitchhiker	B	GENERAL
3	How does the mythological Pegasus differ from the horses of the earthly world?	it has two heads	he drinks blood	it has wings	with a golden mane	C	RELIGION
4	What is the seat of Nograd County?	Balassa Colony	Mouse	Salgotarjan	Nograd	C	GEOGRAPHY
5	Who kills a usurer in Russian literature?	Platonov	Kostilov	Raskolnikov	Rastakovsky	C	LITERATURE
6	On which river is Arad located?	Szamos	Black-Round	Moros	Tisza	C	GEOGRAPHY
7	Who is Robert Redford's partner in The Big Bad?	Charles Bronson	Paul Newman	Henry Fonda	Steve McQueen	B	MOVIE
8	What animals are the protagonists of Merle's novel Animal Minds?	monkeys	mice	dogs	dolphins	D	LITERATURE
9	What was the Spanish city of Toledo famous for?	about weapon makers	about its potters	of its miracle-working source	from his horse farm	A	COUNTRIES
10	"Everybody's Somebody's" was platinum by which singer in 1995?	Gjon Delhusa	akos	Ferenc Demjen	Charlie Horvath	D	MUSIC
11	Which one did Laszlo Bíro invent?	the carburetor	the ballpoint pen	the holograph	the roll film	B	TECHNIQUE
12	Which of the following scientists did not receive the Nobel Prize in Physics?	Max Planck	Karl Werner Heisenberg	Erwin Schrodinger	Lord Ernest Rutherford	D	SCIENCE
1	Which spice is said to be small but mighty?	pepper	caraway seeds	in Lesty	thyme	A	LANGUAGE
2	In which month were the thirteen Arad martyrs executed?	August	September	October	November	C	HISTORY
3	Who is Ingrid Bergman's partner in Casablanca?	James Stewart	Humphrey Bogart	Clark Gable	Gary Cooper	B	MOVIE
4	What horn is a relative of the oboe called?	English	German	French	Russian	A	OPERA
5	Which verb is spelled incorrectly?	tolerate	it's cold	it's raining	fruit	D	LANGUAGE
6	What room did Chekhov write a story about?	from room 101	from ward number 6	from the tsar's salon	from the railway waiting room	B	LITERATURE
7	Which prophet was thrown to lions?	Ezekiel	Jeremiah	Isaiah	Daniel	D	RELIGION
8	What kind of food is minestrone?	soup	roast lamb	ice cream	pizza	A	KITCHEN
9	What kind of animal is a whistle?	pest beetle	swamp flea	spring mosquito	cave bat	A	BIOLOGY
1	It disappears like camphor - the saying goes. But what is camphor?	tropical insect	foreign currency	crystalline compound	lowland outlaw	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is the name of the religious ban on saying certain words?	fable	tabula	taboo	tabulation	C	GENERAL
3	Which of the following is the title of a well-known Hemingway work?	For whom the cannons roar	For whom the angels sing	For Whom the Bell Tolls	For whom the applause roars	C	LITERATURE
4	What flag is used to signal the end of the race in Formula 1 races?	dotted	striped	white	checkered	D	SPORTS
5	What do they do with Greek feta?	they play music on it	they eat it	they sail with it	they paint with it	B	GENERAL
6	Who lived in what is now Guatemala?	Mayans	Cherokee	pueblos	quechuas	A	COUNTRIES
7	In which year did the last Soviet soldier leave Hungary?	1989	1990	1991	1992	C	HISTORY
8	What is the title of Miklos Jancso's film made in 1999?	My father!… the Batman!	Hernadi, the Dracula	Your mother!… the mosquitoes	Piglet! And the wolves?	C	MOVIE
9	Which substance is not of plant origin?	resin	incense	gum	gelatin	D	BIOLOGY
10	Whose daughter is Iphigeneia in Greek myth?	Artemis	Persephone's	Klutaimnestra	Jocasta's	C	RELIGION
1	According to the saying, what kind of animal does the Konok man tie to the stake?	horse	a goat	eat	bull	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is outdoor gymnastics?	morning gymnastics	laboratory instrument	greyhound race	ski chest	D	LANGUAGE
3	According to the mythological story, who hid in the falo?	raging gods	Greek warriors	nymphs and fauns	Roman legionaries	B	RELIGION
4	Which African country is not located on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea?	Algeria	Tunisia	Libya	Kenya	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	What do you call languages that are no longer used as native languages?	native languages	dead languages	closed languages	dormant languages	B	LANGUAGE
6	Which of the following composers never wrote a symphony?	Schumann	Beethoven	Haydn	Chopin	D	OPERA
7	What is the name of the three-part altarpiece?	triumvirate	triptych	tripartite	tricolor	B	LANGUAGE
8	Who was the American president when the USA entered World War I?	Theodore Roosevelt	William Taft	Warren Harding	Woodrow Wilson	D	HISTORY
9	Where did the popular comedian Gyula Kabos die?	Los Angeles	in Newyork	in Zurich	in London	B	MOVIE
1	Where, according to the saying, did the undeservedly high-ranking man climb up?	on a stake of runner beans	to the eaves of the castle	on a power pole	cucumber tree	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following has sails?	blacksmith shop	windmill	steam locomotive	combine harvester	B	GENERAL
3	Who Was Liza Minnelli's Famous Mother?	Ingrid Bergman	Judy Garland	Ginger Rogers	Greta Garbo	B	MOVIE
4	What is the title of Miklos Munkacsi's stage work: "Until..."	Elijah	Beatles	Rolling Stones	Metro	B	MUSIC
5	What were the decrees with the force of law called in some absolute monarchies?	father	patent	agent	agape	B	HISTORY
6	What does the saying mean? "Errare humanum est."	The die is cast	Repetition is the mother of knowledge	To err is human thing	The head stinks of fish	C	LANGUAGE
7	What event is the city of Pamplona famous for every year?	film festival	wine competition	bull run	carnival	C	COUNTRIES
8	Where did the center of icon painting develop in the 10th century?	in Avignon	in Ravenna	In Byzantium	in Kiev	C	FINE ARTS
9	Who is Julia Roberts' partner in The Mexican?	Brad Pitt	Antonio Banderas	Tom Cruise	Richard Gere	A	MOVIE
10	Which Hungarian ruler took part in the Battle of Nikapolis?	Louis the Great	Zsigmond	I. Ulaszlo	II. Louis	B	HISTORY
1	According to the saying, what does a person who eats a lot and with a good appetite eat?	with lean guts	with a large spoon	with gold vella	with a spatula	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is the name of the upper horizontal wood of the door or window frame?	eyelash tree	eye axis tree	lintel	glasses tree	C	ARCHITECTURE
3	What is the rotation period of the Earth around its axis?	one day	a month	three months	one year	A	SCIENCE
4	In which sport can you jump a triple Lutz?	athletics	skydiving	dressage	figure skates	D	SPORTS
5	What is the name of the "Promised Land" in the Bible?	Jerusalem	Canaan	Nirvana	Babylon	B	RELIGION
6	Which Hungarian singer sang about "hearts in love"?	Andrea Szulak	Orsi	Sandy	Dora Szinetar	C	MUSIC
7	At which turn of the year did the Battle of Stalingrad take place?	1941-1942	1942-1943	1943-1944	1944-1945	B	HISTORY
8	Where in Hungary does the Bunyevac ethnic group live in significant numbers?	Around Miskolc	Around Sopron	Around Baja	Around Gyula	C	HUNGARY
9	What is the title of the film directed by Geza Beremenyi in 1988?	Atlantis	Eldorado	Walpurgis	Olympus	B	MOVIE
10	Who made a bronze statue of David for the Medici?	Michelangelo	Donatello	Bernini	Pisano	B	FINE ARTS
11	What was called Archimedes' twist?	philosophical trend	water lifting machinery	ancient drilling tool	geometric law	B	SCIENCE
12	What language Bible translation is the Vulgate?	Greek	Hebrew	Latin	Italian	C	RELIGION
1	What does the vernacular call a person who needs nothing, who is idle?	pickle stirrer	juice cooler	brain kettle	hygroscopic	B	GENERAL
2	Which part of dramatic works is the prologue?	introduction	final word	the climax of the conflict	the main character's monologue	A	LITERATURE
3	How did Szent Margit of arpad-hazi live most of her life?	as Queen of Naples	as a prisoner of the Czech prince	as a Dominican nun	ARC. As Bela's heir to the throne	C	HISTORY
4	Which food is one of the ingredients of meringue?	flour	egg white	milk	yeast	B	KITCHEN
5	Which country is the most populous state in South America?	Argentina	Brazil	Chile	Colombia	B	COUNTRIES
6	How do clams breathe?	with gas exchange opening	by skin respiration	with gills	with lungs	C	BIOLOGY
7	Which horse tool connects the harness to the harness?	istray	oat	stomach	marching band	A	GENERAL
8	What could get cordon bleu?	the best restaurant	the fastest ocean liner	the tallest tower	the purest fountain	B	GENERAL
9	What is the title of Charlie Chaplin's last film?	The Countess of Hong Kong	A king in New York	Limelight	Circus	A	MOVIE
1	What is the name of the square podium rounded with ropes for boxing matches?	chopper	dryer	tight	splitting	C	SPORTS
2	What instruments did the shamans use to accompany the magical ceremonies?	lute	flute	drum	water lily	C	GENERAL
3	What metal is steel made from?	aluminum	copper	iron	magnesium	C	SCIENCE
4	Who did Gerard Depardieu portray in the film 1492 - Conquest of Paradise?	James Cook	Magellan	Columbus	Amerigo Vespucci	C	MOVIE
5	What was the family relationship between Maria Theresia and II. Between Jozsef?	father's daughter	mother and son	aunt-nephew	uncle-niece	B	HISTORY
6	Who was chosen as the sportswoman of the year 2000 in Hungary?	Timaeus the Great	Rita Kban	Erzsebet Markus	agnes Kovacs	D	SPORTS
7	In whose honor did the ancient Greeks build the Parthenon in Athens?	Pericles	Hera	Athena Pallas	Zeus	C	HISTORY
1	What do you call someone who plays a game of chance for the first time?	clean hands	virgin hand	left hand	iroquois	B	GENERAL
2	What is the parentage of Yoko Ono, John Lennon's second wife?	Chinese	Malay	Indian	Japan	D	MUSIC
3	What is the title of the film by Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau: "My brother-in-law is ..."	drinker	football star	star lawyer	corner lawyer	D	MOVIE
4	What kind of piece of furniture was used to be made in the period starting with Luca's day?	chest of drawers	for chiffon	bed	chair	D	GENERAL
5	Who built a nunnery on Margit Island?	Robert Karoly	ARC. Bela	Kalman Konyves	St. Stephen	B	HISTORY
6	Which work is subtitled: From the Stormy Centuries of the Hungarian People?	Vorosmarty: Word	Kolcsey: Anthem	Berzsenyi: To the Hungarians	Balassi: A Soldier's Song	B	LITERATURE
7	Where does the Volga flow?	into the Black Sea	into the Sea of Azov	into the Caspian Sea	into the White Sea	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	When did the Hungarian word "teacher" originate?	the XV. century	under Turkish rule	during Finno-Ugric coexistence	in the era of language innovation	D	LANGUAGE
9	Which fairy-tale character did Rossini write an opera about?	Snow White	Little Red Riding Hood	The Little Mermaid	Cinderella	D	OPERA
10	In which film did eva Ruttkai and Zoltan Latinovits not play together?	Sinbad	The story of my stupidity	Zoltan Karpathy	Alpha Romeo and Juliet	B	MOVIE
1	Who are the main characters of Agatha Christie's famous novel?	five little Chinese	ten little niggers	twenty dwarf bushmen	a hundred tiny patagones	B	LITERATURE
2	What does someone with kleptomania do abnormally?	steal	sleep	Irish	bathe	A	LANGUAGE
3	Zahony is the border crossing leading to which neighboring country?	Slovakia	Romania	Croatia	Ukraine	D	GEOGRAPHY
4	What is the name of the ice cream man played by Alfonzo in the movie Hard Hat and Potato Nose?	Baloo	Bagira	Bagameri	Bagaria	C	MOVIE
5	What has made the name of Lajos Landerer so far known?	castle	coffee house	printing house	mine	C	HISTORY
6	Where was the KGST founded in 1949?	in Budapest	In Warsaw	in Sofia	in Moscow	D	HISTORY
7	What was the name of the band Paul McCartney formed in 1971?	Smokey	Genesis	Wings	Eagles	C	MUSIC
8	Which family served as the subject of Zola's cycle of novels?	Thibault	Buddenbrook	Sonnenschein	Rougon-Macquart	D	LITERATURE
9	Where is the height measurement base of our country?	Zsadany	Nadap	Desert porridge	Bluish	B	GEOGRAPHY
1	According to the saying, what does the person who encourages him to make demands do to the other person?	submits a horse	he holds a goat for him	it cranks up your self-awareness	undermines his intentions	A	LANGUAGE
2	What did the vernacular jokingly call a tramp?	new shoes	spring meadow	fast dance	lively music	D	LANGUAGE
3	What family is in the title of agnes Balint's youth novel?	an early bird	winded	giddy	snotty	C	LITERATURE
4	What is a person with agoraphobia afraid of?	from height	from spiders	from water	from open spaces	D	LANGUAGE
5	Jozsef Pelikan, a former dam guard, returned to the screen as the hero of which film?	The false witness	Witness again	A witness for the prosecution	The silent witness	B	MOVIE
6	Which one belongs to the frost saints?	Drinking	Orban	Matthias	Benedict	B	GENERAL
7	Which football club was chosen as the team of the century?	Real Madrid	Manchester United	Bayern Munich	Juventus	A	SPORTS
8	What is another name for the Persian Gulf?	Gulf of Oman	Gulf of Qatar	Arabian Gulf	Gulf of Iran	C	GEOGRAPHY
9	In which opera is Olympia's aria performed?	Puccini: Turandot	Weber: The Magical Hunter	Offenbach: Tales of Hoffmann	Beethoven: Fidelio	C	OPERA
1	What is the title of a Verne novel?	Four-year holiday	Three-year holiday	Two-year vacation	Semester vacation	C	LITERATURE
2	How many cards of the same value does the poker player have if he has a poker?	three	four	five	six	B	GAME
3	The Golden Gate Bridge is the symbol of which city?	new York	San Francisco	Chicago	Los Angeles	B	COUNTRIES
4	Which river did Smetana "set to music" in his symphonic series Hazam?	Elba	Moldavia	Danube	Volga	B	OPERA
5	When did gestures originate?	in prehistoric times	in ancient times	in the Middle Ages	in the new age	C	LITERATURE
6	What is the title of Clint Eastwood's Oscar-winning western? "There is no..."	grace	more cartridges	Sorry	already bison	C	MOVIE
1	Which of the following is the name of a bird with a long beak?	snipe	boudoir	wardrobe	lodge	A	BIOLOGY
2	Which month bears the name of the bush-crested tree placed in front of houses or houses under construction?	March	April	May	June	C	GENERAL
3	What are the artistic wood inlays on the furniture called?	instruction	marquetry	inspection	Intendancy	B	GENERAL
4	Bekes county does not border which county?	Csongrad	Baranya	Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok	Hajdu-Bihar	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	Who wrote a monumental novel about the story of the biblical Joseph and his brothers?	Robert Musil	Lion Feuchtwanger	Thomas Mann	Franz Werfel	C	LITERATURE
6	Which Russian composer wrote an opera based on Pushkin's Anyegin?	Mussorgsky	Borogin	Tchaikovsky	Rimsky-Korsakov	C	OPERA
7	When did Giordano Bruno die?	in 1200	in 1400	in the 1600s	in 1800	C	HISTORY
8	Who is the composer of the musical Hair?	Galt McDermott	Leonard Bernstein	Andrew Lloyd Webber	John Kander	A	MUSIC
9	In which city is the Australian International Tennis Championships held in January each year?	in Sydney	in Melbourne	in Canberra	in Adelaide	B	SPORTS
10	Which of the following works by Shakespeare begins with a prologue?	The storm	Winter rege	Romeo and Juliet	Cymbeline	C	LITERATURE
1	According to the saying, what is good for the person who foresees the events that will happen in time?	earlobe	his calf	nose	corns	C	GENERAL
2	What was the name of men who were very popular among women?	bel what	bel canto	belladonna	beluga	A	GENERAL
3	Which word does not cover a type of glasses?	lorgnette	eyepiece	monocle	lantern	D	LANGUAGE
4	In which city is the "Italian woman" in Rossini's comedy?	in Algiers	in Rome	in Baghdad	in Paris	A	OPERA
1	What is the name of a Szekely dance?	tinkering	barn rammer	filter button	uplifting	B	GENERAL
2	In which sport is the Tour de France organized?	sailing	cycling	cross country running	motorboat sports	B	SPORTS
3	Where did the ancients work in the past?	in the army	at the town hall	in the taproom	in the watch workshop	A	LANGUAGE
4	For whom was ambrosia the food that gave them immortality?	Olympian gods	Egyptian pharaohs	Gallic Druids	Viking heroes	A	HISTORY
5	What is the title of the 1971 crime film starring Clint Eastwood?	Hard Harry	Barbarian Benny	Marked Marty	Dirty Harry	D	MOVIE
6	How many Hungarian kings ruled under the name Istvan?	one	three	five	six	C	HISTORY
7	What was the name of Jacques-Yves Cousteau's world-famous ocean liner?	Calypso	Kirk's	Penelope	Nausicaa	A	GENERAL
8	Who was the first king of the Jews?	Saul	Solomon	David	Samuel	A	RELIGION
9	"I am Madame Bovary!" Who allegedly made this statement?	Balzac	Stendhal	Zola	Flaubert	D	LITERATURE
1	After what, according to the saying, is rest sweet?	lunch	gardening	work	doing nothing	C	LANGUAGE
2	What does the person who dries it do with the fruit?	it preserves	makes jam out of it	makes brandy out of it	peels it off	A	KITCHEN
3	On which island is the so-called Blue Cave?	Ibiza	Sicily	Capri	Corfu	C	COUNTRIES
4	Hippocrates is considered the father of which discipline?	historiography	medicine	descriptive geometry	astronomy	B	SCIENCE
5	Which of the following is the name of a women's garment with loose, ruffled sleeves?	shirt chest	sleeve	shirt button	shirt shoulder	D	GENERAL
6	To whom can a person with blood group 0 donate blood?	to no one	only for blood type 0	for everyone	only for blood type AB	C	BIOLOGY
7	Which movie did Shirley MacLaine star in?	Casablanca	Irma, you sweetie	My love, Hiroshima	Vacation in Rome	B	MOVIE
8	In which part of our body is the hooded muscle located?	on the arm	on the leg	on the head	on the back	D	BIOLOGY
1	What kind of tax is VAT?	raised in April	paid by the state	general traffic	state accumulator	C	GENERAL
2	What does the vernacular call the pupil?	eye shine	eye bug	cat's eye	eye mirror	B	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following is kept in the silo?	poultry	sheep	feed	washing clothes	C	GENERAL
4	Who invented the phonograph?	Thomas Edison	Benjamin Franklin	Puskas Tivadar	Robert Fulton	A	TECHNIQUE
5	Amerigo Tot became famous as a representative of which art form?	as a sculptor	as a free-lance artist	as an illusionist	as a poet	A	ART
6	Which animal can be considered the ancestor of your mastodon?	Lion	rhinoceros	elephant	crocodile	C	BIOLOGY
1	What hour is the intimate togetherness of lovers called?	fat	shepherd	goulash	shepherd	D	GENERAL
2	Which natural phenomenon matches the title of a Shakespeare play?	flood	storm	mirage	snowfall	B	LITERATURE
1	What was the name of the folk headdress worn by married women?	ax	it's worth it	bonnet	hair and clothes	C	GENERAL
2	What "life" did Giocomo Puccini write an opera about?	silence	bohemian	married	private	B	OPERA
3	Which animal is the symbol of cowardice in the Hungarian language?	chick	rabbit	roe deer	mole	B	LANGUAGE
4	Which of the members of the United Kingdom is not on the same island?	England	Scotland	Wales	Northern Ireland	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	Where was Janos Arany born?	Sklabonya	Ermindszent	Nagysalontan	in Stregovan	C	LITERATURE
6	Which band sang the song "Kell og varj"?	Metro	Elijah	Hungary	Neoton	D	MUSIC
7	At which Olympics did Istvan Kovacs (Koko) win a gold medal?	Seoul 1988	Barcelona 1992	Atlanta 1996	Sydney 2000	C	SPORTS
8	Who was Budapest II named after? the first, partially steel-built Danube bridge after World War II?	About Istvan Szechenyi	II. About Ferenc Rakoczi	About Lajos Kossuth	About Sandor Petfi	C	GENERAL
1	What is the name of a dish?	muffler	wow	juice	mulya	C	KITCHEN
2	What can turn a man's side, according to the saying?	idiosyncrasy	curiosity	greed	stupidity	B	LANGUAGE
3	What railway did he sing about on the 1974 album by the band Bergendy?	pioneering	storm	spirit	crust	C	MUSIC
4	Representatives of which profession use the Davy lamp?	firefighters	miners	actors	boatmen	B	GENERAL
5	How many wolves did Miklos Toldi fight in the reeds in Janos Arany's work?	with one	with two	with three	with ninety nine	B	LITERATURE
6	Who played the woman Robert Redford fell in love with in Far From Africa?	Glenn Close	Meryl Streep	Demi Moore	Sharon Stone	B	MOVIE
7	What were the Celtic priests called?	pontifex	haruspex	Druid	magicoturmix	C	RELIGION
8	Who among the following is not an Olympic gold medalist athlete?	Rudolph of Carpathia	Aurel Carpathian	Karolý Karpati	George Karpati	B	SPORTS
9	Who was called clubfoot in Greek mythology?	Odysseus	Oedipus	Achilles	Strap	B	RELIGION
10	Which of the following rivers has a funnel mouth?	Danube	Elba	Nile	Amazon	B	GEOGRAPHY
11	From which part of the calf does the person who buys frikando buy?	spine	brisket	shoulder blade	thigh	D	KITCHEN
1	Which "cake" is the name of a cake?	blower	striking	drummer	it's tricky	C	KITCHEN
2	Which of the following is headed by a dean?	faculty	Tatar army	french dance troupe	mongolian parliament	A	GENERAL
3	What is the title of Alfred Hitchcock's world-famous film: "The Man Who Too Much..."	slept	known	spoke	drank	B	MOVIE
4	Whose wife is Juno in Roman mythology?	Zeus	Mercury	Jupiter	Mars	C	RELIGION
5	What is Willy Loman's occupation in Arthur Miller's well-known play?	soldier	doctor	agent	writer	C	LITERATURE
6	Which country's national team did our water polo team play in the final of the Sydney Olympics?	Russia	Yugoslavia	Italy	Croatia	A	SPORTS
7	Who was VIII. Henrik's court painter?	Anthony van Dyck	Jr. Hans Holbein	Jan van Eyck	Thomas Gainsborough	B	FINE ARTS
8	Who among the following actresses received the Kossuth Award in 2001?	Juli Basti	Enik Eszenyi	Polite Dorothy	Ildiko of Bansagi	B	THEATER
1	What is the name of a children's game that resembles gymnastics?	peeling potatoes	rice counting	salt break	pepper sniffing	C	GENERAL
2	Who can perform a caesarean section?	goldsmith	gardener	cook	obstetrician	D	GENERAL
3	In which country is the Palace of Versailles located?	Italy	France	Spain	Portugal	B	COUNTRIES
4	What is the name of epicondylitis, which occurs due to strong stress?	athlete's elbow	wrestling elbow	tennis elbow	scander elbow	C	BIOLOGY
5	On which holiday of the year was Sandor Petfi born?	at new year	on Easter Sunday	at Pentecost	Christmas eve	A	LITERATURE
6	In which movie did Arnold Schwarzenegger play the main role?	The last scout	The last action hero	The last emperor	The Last of the Mohicans	B	MOVIE
7	Who among the following mythological creatures were fortune tellers?	harpies	furies	siren	sibyls	D	RELIGION
8	Which country does not border India?	Iran	Pakistan	Nepal	China	A	GEOGRAPHY
9	In which operetta does Adel, the maid appear?	Imre Kalman: The tavern queen	Ferenc Lehar: The country of smiles	Jr. Johann Strauss: The Bat	Jen Huszka: Prince Bob	C	OPERA
1	What does someone who is lying do?	ski	sleigh	skate	sings	B	LANGUAGE
2	What were military troop units called in ancient Rome?	banner	legion	landing	traveller	B	HISTORY
3	What is another name for the chess piece called the leader?	King	hussar	queen	bastion	C	GAME
1	What is the title of RTL Klub's popular series?	Crepes	Spices	Guys	Manus	C	GENERAL
2	What was called kolonc in the vernacular?	wanderlust	decorative ribbon	difficulties	a purse hanging from a belt	C	LANGUAGE
3	What time of year is the Venice Carnival held?	at the end of winter	in early May	On St. John's Day	At the end of summer	A	COUNTRIES
4	Which of our filmmakers makes cartoons?	Istvan Szabo	Peter Bacso	Attila Dargay	Pal Sandor	C	MOVIE
5	What do you need for the game called stringing?	card	rolling dice	coins	ball	C	GAME
6	To which biblical person is the Sermon on the Mount connected?	Moses	Apostle Paul	Solomon	Jesus	D	RELIGION
7	What is the beggar in the title of Attila Jozsef's book?	love	solitude	beauty	loyalty	C	LITERATURE
8	Which of the listed countries is not located on the African continent?	Somalia	Sudan	Swaziland	Suriname	D	GEOGRAPHY
1	What is the title of Zoltan Varkonyi's film based on the work of Ivan Mandy: "Csutak and the..."	blue belly	green camel	gray horse	after pepita orangutan	C	MOVIE
2	What "slice" is the name of a popular sweet consisting of wafer bases filled with cream?	Roman	Venetian	Neapolitan	from Parma	C	KITCHEN
3	What does the person who buys a ticket to the premiere of a play see?	the last performance	the presentation	the main test	the reading test	B	GENERAL
4	In which of our mountains is Galyatet located?	Purse	Matra	Pilis	Beech tree	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	Sulfur is the Latin name of which chemical element?	sulfur	copper	selenium	iron	A	SCIENCE
6	Who wrote the lyrics to the Webber musical Jesus Christ Superstar?	Peter Gabriel	Paul Simon	Robert Plant	Tim Rice	D	MUSIC
7	Who was the mother of Queen Elizabeth I of England?	Mary Stuart	Anne Boleyn	Victoria	Bloody Mary	B	HISTORY
8	Ferenc Bene was a legendary striker of which Hungarian football club?	Ferencvaros	Iron	Doge of ujpest	MTK	C	SPORTS
9	In which of the following disciplines is the Nobel Prize not awarded?	physics	chemistry	mathematics	medicine	C	SCIENCE
10	Which Verdi opera was not based on Schiller's play?	Illegals	Don Carlos	Falstaff	Luisa Miller	C	OPERA
11	Which plant is not related to the pear?	Japanese quince	medlar	hawthorn	pomegranate	D	BIOLOGY
1	What is another name for training clothes?	sorry	pee	bear	bitch	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of institution was the Orpheum?	educational	entertaining	state administration	sports	B	GENERAL
3	Zoltan Kocsis is a performer of which instrument?	piano	trumpet	violin	cello	A	OPERA
4	According to the saying, what is he chasing after vain dreams?	rainbow	lightning	moonbeam	mirage	D	LANGUAGE
5	Whose testament is Istvan Fekete's youth novel about?	the Pasha of Buda	the Turkish sultan	the aga of Koppany	the Janissary of Istanbul	C	LITERATURE
6	What kind of construction was the skene part of the ancient Greeks?	theater	fortune teller	bath	apartment building	A	HISTORY
7	What material is taffeta made of?	made of cotton	made of wool	from fur	made of silk	D	GENERAL
8	Which composer had a theater built in Bayreuth?	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart	Richard Wagner	Ludwig von Beethoven	Johann Sebastian Bach	B	THEATER
9	Zoltan Varkonyi did not direct a film from which Jokai novel?	Black diamonds	Sons of a man of stone	Poor are rich	A Hungarian nabob	C	MOVIE
10	Who did the Hungarian orders elect as king in Besztercebany?	Gabor Bethlen	II. Ferenc Rakoczi	Istvan Bocskai	Imret Thokoly	A	HISTORY
1	What kind of drink is aszu?	gin	rum	Skin	prune juice	C	KITCHEN
2	What kind of game is mimicry?	card game	ball game	facial play	puppet show	C	GAME
3	Which of the following are called devil's chariots?	a locomotive	a weed	a kind of doughnut	the roller coaster	B	LANGUAGE
4	What is the name of the pair of twins who reunited their parents in the famous youth novel?	Luisa and Britta	Lotte and Luise	Brigitte and Lotte	Odette and Gitte	B	LITERATURE
5	According to the title of Janos Kormendi's book, where did he write letters from?	about rheumatology	about urology	on parapsychology	about hypochondria	B	GENERAL
6	In which theater was the play "Imagined report on an American pop festival" presented?	in the Vígsthínhaz	at the Madach Theatre	at the National Theatre	in the Operetta Theater	A	THEATER
7	On which continent are the Atlas Mountains located?	Africa	Asia	Europe	Australia	A	GEOGRAPHY
8	"He walks Canossa," they say to the penitent man. What or who was Canossa originally named after?	of a pope	of an emperor	of a torture device	a castle	D	HISTORY
9	Which accessory of the matador in the bullfight is called a muleta?	her red scarf	his clothes	the dagger	his sword	A	GENERAL
10	Who won the women's singles tennis tournament at the Sydney Olympics?	Venus Williams	Windy Monika	Martina Hingis	Lindsay Davenport	A	SPORTS
11	Who directed the classic French film Foggy Roads?	Jean Cocteau	Marcel Carne	Jean Renoir	Rene Clair	B	MOVIE
1	How did the old street phones work?	with tantra	with tantalum	with tantus	with tantalum	C	GENERAL
2	Which of the following is a digger?	doe	hunting horn	singer	game trophy	C	LANGUAGE
3	Cataract is a disease of which organ?	ear	eye	stomach	pharynx	B	BIOLOGY
4	Which singer's album of poems set to music is "Kertesz leszek"?	Soldier Clari	Zsuzsa Cserhati	Zsuzsa Konc	Kati Kovacs	C	MUSIC
5	When does the Turk occur?	when threshing grain	when cutting wood	when burning bricks	when pressing grapes	A	GENERAL
6	What did Penelope, Odysseus' wife, do to keep the suitors away?	he turned them into pigs	he unraveled what he had woven	wearing a disguise, he disappeared	he observed ten years of holy fasting	B	LITERATURE
7	Which sea washes the shores of Georgia?	Black Sea	Baltic Sea	Caspian Sea	Sea of Marmara	A	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which fantastic movie did the band Queen compose the music for?	Winged bounty hunter	Flash Gordon	Star Wars	Superman	B	MOVIE
9	What court is played at the Wimbledon International Tennis Championships?	slag	plastic covered	grassy	bitumen	C	SPORTS
10	According to KRESZ, what is the distance between the danger sign and the dangerous road section on the highway?	150-250 meters	250-500 meters	350-600 meters	500-1000 meters	B	GENERAL
1	How does the saying go: "Slim as..."	straw	vocal cord	stone fiber	reed	D	LANGUAGE
2	What is the pedigree of a breeding animal called?	Parasol	pedigree	in a cape	pellet	B	GENERAL
3	Geza Radvanyi's film The Talking Robe was based on whose work?	Mor Jokai	Golden John	Kalman Mikszath	Gyula Krudy	C	MOVIE
4	Which singer played one of the main roles in Gyorgy Szomjas' film Bald Dog?	Charlie	akos	Dean Gyula Bill	Kiki	C	MOVIE
5	In which football club team did Andras Torcsik play?	Ferencvaros	Kispest Honved	Doge of ujpest	Iron	C	SPORTS
6	Which animal does not belong to the order of crocodiles?	alligator	caiman	gavial	he barbies	D	BIOLOGY
7	Emperor Charlemagne was a prominent figure of which dynasty?	Carolingian	Merovingian	Valois	Bourbon	A	HISTORY
8	What nationality was Volta, the namesake of the unit of electrical voltage?	Italian	French	Czech	Danish	A	SCIENCE
9	Who is the lover of Marton Gyulai in the folk ballad?	Kund Abigel	Esti Dalos	Kata Kadar	Blonde Panni	C	LITERATURE
10	Which building was not built during the reign of Ferenc Jozsef I?	Hungarian National Museum	Erkel Theater	Keleti railway station in Budapest	Museum of Fine Arts	A	HISTORY
11	Who did Elton John release a single with in 1991?	Michael Jackson	George Michael	Stevie Wonder	Paul McCartney	B	MUSIC
12	Who among the following canoeists did not win an Olympic gold medal?	Csaba Horvath	Janos Parti	Tibor Tata	Tamas Wichmann	D	SPORTS
13	Which of the following types of mushrooms are poisonous?	large porcini mushroom	emperor mushroom	trumpet mushroom	wild mushroom	D	BIOLOGY
1	What "bread" is the name of a dish made with eggs?	sloppy	it's a pub	furry	graceful	C	KITCHEN
2	Where does acupuncture as a medicine come from?	From China	From India	From Japan	From Egypt	A	BIOLOGY
3	Laszlo Gretsy is well-known in the media as a practitioner of which discipline?	mathematics	physics	linguistics	archeology	C	SCIENCE
4	What kind of relative is someone on their wedding day?	his godfather	his father-in-law	father-in-law of her child	his brother-in-law	C	LANGUAGE
5	Which of the following notable days is the beginning of Lent?	All Saints' Day	Pentecost Sunday	Ash Wednesday	Easter Monday	C	RELIGION
6	What portfolio did Jozsef Eotvos lead in the Batthyany government of 1848?	internal affairs	religion and education	a matter of justice	agricultural matter	B	HISTORY
7	The movie "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead" is about the heroes of which drama?	King Lear	Tartuffe	Hamlet	III. Richard	C	MOVIE
8	To which ruling house did Charles I, beheaded during the English Civil Revolution, belong?	Plantagenet	Tudor	Stuart	Windsor	C	HISTORY
1	What is the commonly used name for a UFO?	flying condor	flying samovar	flying saucer	unidentified flying object	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which fruit name represents a type of pepper?	Strawberry	sour cherry	cherry	raspberry	C	BIOLOGY
3	Who among the following was called a notary in the past?	conductor	notary	innkeeper	piano maker	B	LANGUAGE
4	What is the name of Tutjos' old friend in Istvan Fekete's novel Tuskevar?	Father Goriot	Master Geppetto	Csoszogi, the old cobbler	Uncle Matula	D	LITERATURE
5	What kind of person is homo sapiens according to the name?	fire starter	straightened up	player	sage	D	LANGUAGE
6	What do you do with pork ribs when they are prepared "butcher style"?	pickled cucumber	sauerkraut	beetroot	horseradish	A	KITCHEN
7	Which English comedian became famous as the film hero Pitkin?	Rowan Atkinson	Michael Palin	Norman Wisdom	Eric Idle	C	MOVIE
8	Which city is not located in Veszprem county?	Pope	Tapolca	Moorish	Zirc	C	GEOGRAPHY
9	Which of the following athletes did not win an Olympic gold medal in the pentathlon?	Ferenc Nemeth	Gyula Turk	Janos Martinek	Andras Balczo	B	SPORTS
10	Who wrote an oratorio about creation based on Milton's work?	JS Bach	Haydn	Ferenc Liszt	Trade	B	OPERA
1	What kind of "pocket" is there on a men's jacket?	cigar	snuff	tobacco	bottomless	A	GENERAL
2	When does a good friend know each other, according to the saying?	if he became an enemy	while drinking wine	in trouble	in great luck	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following is the title of a well-known Vorosmarty poem?	Reflections in school	Thoughts in the library	Reflections in the theater	Reflections in the library	B	LITERATURE
4	What student did Karl Millocker write an operetta about?	wanderer	garaboncian	beggar	old	C	OPERA
5	Who created the famous symbol, the dove of peace?	Dali	Picasso	Klee	Matisse	B	FINE ARTS
6	What was originally kept in the chiffonier?	dishes	clothes	food	poultry	B	GENERAL
1	What are the "girls" according to the hit operetta The Queen of the Tavern?	amazons	Angels	Englishmen	nuns	B	OPERA
2	Which of the following animal names is a first name for a type of smallpox?	wolf	donkey	dove	sheep	D	BIOLOGY
3	Which movie is the main character of Laszlo Markus?	The witness	Liliomfi	The naked diplomat	Dollar daddy	C	MOVIE
4	Steven Spielberg's film Hook was based on which fairy tale?	Peter Pan	The blue bird	Robin Hood	Pinocchio	A	MOVIE
5	In which month is Independence Day celebrated in the USA?	in January	in May	in July	in November	C	COUNTRIES
6	How to write correctly?	with honey	beehive	honey bee	with bee	A	LANGUAGE
1	How did the astronauts land on the moon?	moon sail	with a moon barge	by moon shuttle	with moon star	C	SCIENCE
2	What is the old name of the rules?	regula	strigula	wick	fable	A	LANGUAGE
3	What do you call the checkmate given a few moves after the opening in chess?	bactermatous	cobbler's matt	fat mat	pandur mat	B	GAME
4	In which art field did Gyula Csortos become famous?	as a composer	as a painter	as a sculptor	as an actor	D	ART
5	In which of our counties is the historic Szigetvar located?	Somogy	Fierce	Nograd	Baranya	D	GEOGRAPHY
6	Ajax is the football team of which Dutch city?	Rotterdam	Amsterdam	Hague	Eindhoven	B	SPORTS
7	Kim Il Sung was the president of which country?	China	North Korea	Mongolia	Vietnam	B	HISTORY
8	Which European star stars in the comedy The Woman Next Door?	Brigitte Bardot	Sophia Loren	Claudia Cardinale	Catherine Deneuve	B	MOVIE
9	What is the origin of the world-famous opera singer Placido Domingo?	Portuguese	Brazilian	Spanish	Italian	C	OPERA
10	Which famous work of world literature was written in tercinas requiring virtuoso poetry?	Goethe: Faust	Pushkin: Anyegin	Dante: Divine Comedy	Milton: Paradise Lost	C	LITERATURE
11	When and where was the first bottle baby born?	1985, Soviet Union	1954, USA	1967, South African Inter.	1978, Great Britain	D	BIOLOGY
12	Which Hungarian filmmaker received a lifetime achievement award at the 1979 Cannes Film Festival?	Zoltan Fabri	Karoly Makk	Istvan Szabo	Miklos Jancso	D	MOVIE
1	What is the name of a spirit fermented from diluted honey?	wasp brandy	mead	hive wine	brandy brandy	B	KITCHEN
2	What was slate used for in schools in the old days?	for beating	for writing	to measure length	for gardening	B	GENERAL
3	Which of the following countries does not have the color red in its flag?	Austria	Poland	Denmark	Greece	D	COUNTRIES
4	Who directed the film Kisvilma - The Last Diary?	Karoly Makk	Peter Bacso	Krisztina Deak	Marta Meszaros	D	MOVIE
5	Who was Semiramis, whose name is associated with the famous hanging garden?	Greek goddess	Assyrian queen	Egyptian pharaoh	David's favorite	B	HISTORY
6	What does he snack on who eats egg fruit?	tomatoes	eggplant	gooseberry	roller coaster	B	LANGUAGE
7	Who was called the "devil's fiddler"?	David Ojstrah	Yehudi Menuhin	Giacomo Stradivari	Niccolo Paganini	D	OPERA
1	Which "sugar" is the name of a candy?	sheep	bear	cattle	donkey	B	KITCHEN
2	Which one is being brewed?	game meat	pasta	wine	your clothes	B	KITCHEN
3	Where does Jen Huszka's operetta Prince Bob take place?	in Boston	in Dublin	in London	in Glasgow	C	OPERA
4	Which planet in the solar system is farthest from the sun?	Neptune	Jupiter	Pluto	Saturn	C	SCIENCE
5	Who among the following deals with lithographs?	ethnographer	bibliographer	lithographer	biographer	C	LANGUAGE
6	Which Hungarian youth novel is the title of a Hungarian rock band?	Vuk	Pal street boys	Tuskevar	Stars of Eger	B	MUSIC
7	Which Hitchcock film does Anthony Perkins star in?	Psycho	Dizziness	Birds	North-Northwest	A	MOVIE
8	What is the name of the illusionist in the novel Mario and the Wizard?	Aschenbach	Tonio Kroger	Onions	Hans Castorp	C	LITERATURE
9	Actor Tamas Jordan was one of the founding members of which theater?	Radnot Theater	Merlin Theatre	Comedy Theatre	Katona Jozsef Theater	B	THEATER
1	What is the name of the fruit juice fermented for making brandy?	digit	mash	it's quick	string bag	B	KITCHEN
2	Who do you most often meet when you're in a neighborhood?	with doctors	with engineers	with soldiers	with laboratory assistants	C	GENERAL
3	What kind of soul do we call a profoundly deceitful person?	wolf	carvallo	fox	dove	C	LANGUAGE
4	What was the original occupation of Jozsef Pelikan, the protagonist of the film The Witness?	guide	train driver	barrier guard	metallurgist	C	MOVIE
5	In one of Shakespeare's plays, who was predicted to be king by three witches?	III. To Richard	VIII. to Henrik	to Macbeth	To Hamlet	C	LITERATURE
6	Which of the following is Krampampuli?	Santa's helpers	Shepherd dog	a spirit	pasta with potato	C	LANGUAGE
7	Who is the author of the historical document known as the "Easter Article"?	Lajos Kossuth	Ferenc Deak	Laszlo Nemeth	Oskar Jaszi	B	HISTORY
8	Which famous composer was born in Siofok?	Ferenc Liszt	Ferenc Lehar	Imre Kalman	Ferenc Erkel	C	OPERA
9	Which Roman emperor allowed the free practice of the Christian religion?	Marcus Aurelius	Diocletian	Vespasian	Constantine	D	HISTORY
1	How does the saying someone was captured?	They hit his suba	His tailcoat was caught	They were removed from the filter	He was caught along the way	B	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of vehicles does the flotilla consist of?	from trucks	from wagons	from airplanes	from ships	D	GENERAL
3	In which of our mountains is the country's highest point, Kekes?	in Bukk	in Matra	in Bakony	in Mecsek	B	GEOGRAPHY
4	What does someone who buys bourbon get?	champagne	whiskey	chocolate	lily	B	LANGUAGE
5	In which Jokai novel is the character Fatia Negra living a double life?	Rab Raby	Yellow Rose	Poor are rich	Rich are poor	C	LITERATURE
6	In which stylistic direction did Paul Gauguin create a significant, early stage of his career?	expressionism	impressionism	cubism	surrealism	B	FINE ARTS
7	What is the ratio of the weight and volume of a substance called?	crowd	molecular weight	specific gravity	resistor	C	SCIENCE
8	Which animals do not belong to the Hymenoptera order?	wasps	bees	ants	butterflies	D	BIOLOGY
9	Who hears women's thoughts in "What does a woman need?" as the protagonist of the film?	Mel Gibson	Jack Nicholson	Brad Pitt	Danny DeVito	A	MOVIE
10	What is the name of Pluto's moon?	Umbriel	Triton	Charon	Callisto	C	SCIENCE
1	Where are the barricades set up?	in sheepfolds	in bathrooms	on the streets	in wine cellars	C	GENERAL
2	Who is Bonnie's partner in Arthur Penn's world-famous gangster film?	Cher	Clyde	Money	Stan	B	MOVIE
3	What do they do with plants when they eat them?	intersects	they are hoeing	they are rarefied	sprays	C	BIOLOGY
4	Which country does the juggler come from?	Thailand	Japan	China	Korea	B	SPORTS
5	Which nationality is covered by the name "lake"?	Austrian	Serbian	Slovak	Bulgarian	C	LANGUAGE
6	Who Stole the Gods' Fire for the Humans in Greek Mythology?	Odysseus	Herakles	Prometheus	Achilles	C	RELIGION
7	Which European actress became the culture minister of her country?	Gina Lollobrigida	Melina Mercouri	Sophia Loren	Irene Papas	B	HISTORY
8	Who were the two combatants in the Boer War?	English and French	English and South African Dutch	German and South African Dutch	English and Indian	B	HISTORY
9	Philomela is the old name of which bird?	dove	stork	nightingale	egret	C	LANGUAGE
1	Which word refers to a type of coat?	hurricane	typhoon	orkan	tornado	C	GENERAL
2	What is the area where wrestlers fight called?	parquet	lawn	carpet	paste	C	SPORTS
3	Under what title did Vincenzo Bellini write an opera?	The sleepwalker	The SUV	The pedestrian	The submarine	A	OPERA
4	In which town on the Lake Balaton can the Jozsef Attila Memorial Museum be visited?	Siofok	Balatonszarszo	Balatonfured	Balatonszemes	B	HUNGARY
5	Which of the following court terms is also the title of a Kafka novel?	The accused	The lawsuit	The trial	The evidence	B	LITERATURE
6	What does he look like who is called a blade?	tall skinny	short, squat	red-haired, freckled	large, erect ears	A	GENERAL
7	Which city's theater is the world-famous Metropolitan Opera House?	Washington	London	new York	Sydney	C	COUNTRIES
1	What is the name of a type of food?	made	he did it	he sneered	he did it	B	KITCHEN
2	An American spaceship type was named after which god?	Apollo	Dionysus	Zeus	Hades	A	SCIENCE
3	Which of our organs does the cardiologist treat?	our hearts	our eyes	our teeth	our lungs	A	BIOLOGY
4	In the territory of which present-day country is Segesvar located?	Slovakia	Romania	Croatia	Ukraine	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	In which art form does Gyorgy Kurtag create?	music	sculpture	painting	literature	A	ART
6	Which of the following is known colloquially as a boat?	huge footwear	small pot	Danube fishing boat	shabby headgear	B	LANGUAGE
7	Whose "deeds" is one of the books of the New Testament about?	Apostles	Preachers	Kings	Judges	A	RELIGION
8	Who composed the music for the operetta Ball at the Savoy?	Paul abraham	Jen Huszka	Viktor Jacobi	Ferenc Lehar	A	OPERA
9	At which Olympics did Koko win a bronze medal in boxing?	Barcelona 1992	Seoul 1988	Sydney 2000	Atlanta 1996	A	SPORTS
10	For which film did Jiri Menzel receive an Oscar?	Strictly controlled trains	Brewery capriccio	Larks on a thread	Snow Flower Festival	A	MOVIE
11	Who was not the director of today's Vígsthínhaz?	Daniel Job	Gabor Goda	Istvan Somlo	Pal Voros	D	THEATER
1	What is the name of an expert who examines the quality of wines with his senses?	wine wearer	borissa	wine strainer	wine tasting	D	GENERAL
2	Which of the following is not a type of fish?	visa	case	catfish	var	D	BIOLOGY
3	What is the game called rummy played with?	with dominoes	with chess pieces	with a French card	with a Hungarian card	C	GAME
4	In which city is the Garden of Gethsemane mentioned in the Bible?	In Jerusalem	in Bethlehem	in Jericho	In Nazareth	A	RELIGION
5	What was the reform of Ratio Educationis concerned with?	horse breeding	commerce	education	army	C	HISTORY
6	What insect did Rimsky-Korsakov write about?	mosquito	ant	flea	growl	D	OPERA
7	What is the origin of the word fjord?	English	Finnish	Dutch	Norwegian	D	LANGUAGE
8	Who guides Dante through the pits of Hell in the Divine Comedy?	Ovid	Catullus	Virgil	Seneca	C	LITERATURE
9	What did Tessedik Samuel Szarvason create?	wildlife reserve	teacher training university	tobacco factory	agricultural school	D	HUNGARY
1	Which tool makes it easier to put on shoes?	shoe fork	shoe knife	shoe scissors	shoe spoon	D	GENERAL
2	What kind of soft drink is made from fruit and milk?	cocktail	milkshake	his girlfriend	cramp blister	B	KITCHEN
3	What "object" does Pandora have in the mythological story?	his bag	box	his talisman	his cart	B	RELIGION
4	What is the origin of the weapon?	German	Soviet	English	American	B	HISTORY
5	What is the element of the rafter?	doors	roof structure	floor	sash	B	ARCHITECTURE
6	The San Siro stadium is an attraction of which city?	Madrid	Barcelona	Rome	Milan	D	SPORTS
7	Who directed the Hungarian film Vakvaganyok?	Miklos Jancso	Peter Tímar	Peter Bacso	Karoly Makk	B	MOVIE
8	What was the name of Moses' brother?	Abel	Aaron	Balam	Saul	B	RELIGION
9	What kind of animal is Chucundra in The Jungle Book?	hyena	water slide	monkey	muskrat	D	LITERATURE
1	Which vehicle used to be "echo"?	steamboat	chariot	locomotive	airship	B	TECHNIQUE
2	Which Dutchman did Wagner write an opera about?	wooden shoes	got lost	tulip	planet	D	OPERA
3	What did Miklos Toldi's guest page on his shoulders include?	chariot	crane well	stable	plow	A	GENERAL
4	Where does the movie One Flew the Cuckoo's Nest take place?	in an aviary	in a mental institution	in the forest	in prison	B	MOVIE
5	What is the Dresden River?	Rhine	Spree	Elba	Odra	C	GEOGRAPHY
1	What is the name of a type of pork?	puffy	swelling	swelling	puffy	C	KITCHEN
2	What do you call the lowest starting price at an auction?	minimum price	advertised price	Starting price	price on it	C	GENERAL
3	Who gave an Oscar-winning performance in Kramer vs. Kramer?	Al Pacino	Robert DeNiro	Dustin Hoffman	Richard Burton	C	MOVIE
4	What is the rank of Marica in Imre Kalman's operetta?	countess	princess	baroness	queen	A	OPERA
5	What does Hamlet suggest to Ophelia in Janos Arany's translation?	pray often	be more seductive	move home with your mother	retire to a monastery	D	LITERATURE
6	In 1968, an American band was named after which city?	Atlanta	Boston	Chicago	Detroit	C	MUSIC
7	Andras Kern and Imre Bajor star in the remake of which film?	Hippolyte, the footman	Fairy tale car	Deadly spring	Purple acacia	B	MOVIE
8	What do you call the poorly baked, sticky part of the bread?	loop	sausage	bacon	mooching	C	KITCHEN
1	Which derby watcher is wondering?	to a horse race	for greyhound running	for a cockfight	for a Scottish bagpipe competition	A	GENERAL
2	What do you call mowed and dried grass?	straw	hay	thread	leg	B	GENERAL
3	What role does Robin Williams play in Good Morning Vietnam! in the movie?	disc jockey	camp chaplain	doctor	diplomat	A	MOVIE
4	Complete the title of Umberto Eco's world-famous crime novel! "The Rose …"	smell	thorn	color	name	D	LITERATURE
5	Which of the following is not a ski dom?	trapeze	diamond	prism	deltoid	C	SCIENCE
6	Rabat is the capital of which country?	Nepal	Morocco	Angola	Peru	B	COUNTRIES
7	What is the Hungarian title of Divina Commedia?	A comedy of errors	Divine play	Game in the castle	The Tragedy of Man	B	LITERATURE
8	Who is credited with issuing the Law of Antiquity?	Robert Karoly	Kalman Konyves	Louis the Great	Maria Theresa	C	HISTORY
9	Which sport is not included in triathlon?	swimming	running	cycling	shooting	D	SPORTS
10	What does the title of Mozart's opera Cosi fan tutte mean in Hungarian?	They all do it that way	It always ends well	Be true to yourself!	Evil eventually comes to nothing	A	OPERA
1	What is the name of the groom's pre-wedding party with his friends?	girl's fair	bachelor party	mother-in-law	bullfight	B	GENERAL
2	Which is the abbreviation of the name of the authority that manages space research activities of the USA?	CNN	RTL	NBA	NASA	D	GENERAL
3	What do the peoples of the East use the kaftan for?	as a horse tool	as headgear	as a hookah	as a jacket	D	HISTORY
4	What is the title of the film comedy starring Dustin Hoffman?	Blue stockings	Chimpanzee	Sugar doll	My sweetie	D	MOVIE
5	Which plant belongs to the open crops?	fir	pedunculated oak	lily of the valley	sugar cane	A	BIOLOGY
6	Which work is the hero of Pierre Bezuhov?	The half-hearted	Notes from the Mousehole	War and peace	Diary of a Madman	C	LITERATURE
7	Kalman Meszoly was a classic player of which Hungarian football club for nearly a decade and a half?	FTC	Iron	Honved Bp	Doge of ujpest	B	SPORTS
8	Vangelis composed the music for which fantastic film?	Star Wars	Winged bounty hunter	The fifth Element	The Phantom Menace	B	MOVIE
1	Potatoes and skirts can also be like this.	casserole	inflated	fried	abalt	A	GENERAL
2	Which one does the winemaker do when he ages?	taps a barrel	measures the alcohol content of wine	looks at grapes	measures the temperature of the cellar	B	GENERAL
3	Who among the well-known artists is not a director?	Miklos Szinetar	Laszlo Babarczy	Janos Szikora	Tamas Czech	D	THEATER
4	What is the phantom of the famous film hero Belphegor?	Big Ben	Tower	Bastille	Louvre	D	MOVIE
5	Who was called jurat in the old days?	the shepherd's whisker	the law school	the archaeologist	the architect	B	LANGUAGE
6	What plant did the dove bring to Noah in the Bible?	vine	olive branch	palm leaf	fig leaf	B	RELIGION
7	Who proclaimed the Republic of Hungary on October 23, 1989?	arpad Goncz	Mattyas Szuros	Imre Pozsgay	Gyorgy Szabad	B	HISTORY
8	Who was Argos, from whose name our word argus originates?	a one-eyed giant	hundred-eyed monster	keeper of the golden fleece	guardian of the underworld	B	RELIGION
1	Which is a jelly candy made from quince?	quince butter	quince curd	quince cheese	inflated	C	KITCHEN
2	Who is not a female relative?	daughter-in-law	gem	so bye	ipa	D	GENERAL
3	Which Budapest bridge is decorated with turul birds?	Margaret Bridge	Arpad Bridge	Freedom Bridge	Petfi Bridge	C	GENERAL
4	Whose daughter was Athena Pallas in mythology?	Odysseus	Zeus	Hercules	Prometheus	B	RELIGION
5	What kind of driver did Robert De Niro play as the title character in Scorsese's world-famous film?	truck	Taxi	bus	truck	B	MOVIE
6	What is Karl May's famous novel about the treasure?	the old sheriff	the Mohican tribe	the bear cave	the Silver Lake	D	LITERATURE
7	Which of the following did not belong to the so-called among "great prophets"?	Jeremiah	Isaiah	Moses	Daniel	C	RELIGION
1	What is the name of a meat dish?	armored	griddle	mace	helmeted	B	KITCHEN
2	The members of which band played Help! starring in the movie?	Chicago	Beatles	Metallica	Police	B	MUSIC
3	For which part is castor grown?	for its oily seed	for its fibrous stem	for its edible flowers	for its fleshy fruit	A	BIOLOGY
4	How many Nobel Prize ceremonies did the founder, Alfred Nobel, participate in?	only on the first one	at five	ten	not even one	D	SCIENCE
5	The Alhambra is a landmark of which Spanish city?	Seville	Madrid	Cordoba	Granada	D	COUNTRIES
6	What order of animals do narwhals belong to?	crocodiles	turtles	cetaceans	lung fish	C	BIOLOGY
7	Who wrote the fairy tale about the old lady's deer?	Noble agnes Nagy	Anna potter	Zoltan Zelk	Istvan Kormos	B	LITERATURE
8	Where is Borobudur, the world's largest Buddhist temple complex?	India	Indonesia	Thailand	Sri Lanka	B	RELIGION
1	What does the person who is constantly snacking do all the time?	buys	it sucks	sings	she does gymnastics	B	GENERAL
2	Which one is called orphan hair?	the thin thread	the spider web	a plant genus	the wig	C	GENERAL
3	What kind of garden is in the title of Chekhov's play?	apple	grapey	cherry	chestnut	C	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following is one of the raw materials for making stucco?	Pine tree	iron	gypsum	copper	C	ARCHITECTURE
5	Where do you feel bad if you are claustrophobic?	high up	in water	among spiders	in closed places	D	GENERAL
6	Which football team has won the European Championship the most?	Real Madrid	Liverpool	Ajax	AC Milan	A	SPORTS
7	Whose father was Hamilcar Barkas?	Darius	Hammurapi	Ashoka	Hannibal	D	HISTORY
8	Who was Joseph's father according to the Old Testament?	Noah	Jacob	Isaac	Moses	B	RELIGION
9	Who directed the movie Men in the Snow?	Zoltan Fabri	Frigyes Ban	Gyorgy Revesz	Istvan Szts	D	MOVIE
1	What did the person who bought himself a sweater buy?	hunting dog	clothes	sailing ship	car	B	GENERAL
2	What does someone who collects ficus grow?	ornamental fish	rodents	birds	ornamental plants	D	BIOLOGY
3	Which one is needed to make clay?	on clayey mud	on cement	to lime	on sand	A	GENERAL
4	Who plays Obelix in Asterix and Obelix?	Jean-Paul Belmondo	Gerard Depardieu	Claude Brasseur	Philippe Noiret	B	MOVIE
5	Which sport is the title track of one of LGT's songs?	ice hockey	the football	the chess	boxing	D	MUSIC
6	Which stroke of a four-stroke, internal combustion engine is compression?	suction	compression	work schedule	exhaust	B	TECHNIQUE
7	Lazio is the football club team of which Italian city?	Milan	Turin	Naples	Rome	D	SPORTS
8	Who founded the Karinthy Theater?	Frigyes Karinthy	Marton Karinthy	Ferenc Karinthy	Gabor Karinthy	B	THEATER
9	Which of the following birds is a parrot?	egret	canary	cockatoo	linnet	C	BIOLOGY
10	Who founded the famous French theater, the Comedie Francaise?	Napoleon	XIV. Louis	Cardinal Richelieu	Madame de Pompadour	B	THEATER
11	Where was Janos Szapolyai elected king by the Hungarian orders in November 1526?	in Buda	in Szekesfehervar	in Bratislava	Castle	B	HISTORY
1	"How much is worth" the worthless commodity?	a penny	not even a wood seller	a sheet	not even a woodworm	D	GENERAL
2	How does the saying continue? "What you lose on the road,..."	lost forever	is spent by the state	wins at customs	claim back in tax	C	GENERAL
3	What do you call a bridge that spans a valley or chasm?	fighter	viaduct	point	apse	B	GENERAL
4	Who is the main character in Nicsak, who speaks! for the film comedy?	Danny DeVito	Jim Carrey	John Travolta	Tony Curtis	C	MOVIE
5	Which work does the hotel come from? "Our old glory, where do you linger in the gloom of night?"	Hust	The sea rose up	To the Hungarians	Running of Zalan	D	LITERATURE
1	What kind of "steak" is a part of the short rib?	Cancer	virgin	Lion	Aquarius	B	KITCHEN
2	Where do we go when we observe the events taking place in the manèzes?	in the swimming pool	in the circus	in a sports stadium	in parliament	B	GENERAL
3	Whose law is it? "What can go wrong will go wrong."	Ohm	Newton	Murphy	Eddie Murphy	C	GENERAL
4	What is introduced when the statuary is announced?	new national holiday	summary judgment	food ticket system	nationalization	B	HISTORY
5	Which chemical element has the chemical symbol "Cr"?	chlorine	krypton	calcium	chromium	D	SCIENCE
6	In whose form does Adam appear in The Tragedy of Man?	Miltiades	Demosthenes	On Drakhon	Pericles	A	LITERATURE
7	The island of If, where Dumas' hero Edmond Dantes was imprisoned, really exists. Where does he lie?	in the Bay of Marseilles	Near Corsica	off the west coast of Africa	Off the coast of Ireland	A	LITERATURE
8	Who were the Chinese mandarins?	princely descendants	clerks	military officers	caretakers of ornamental gardens	B	LANGUAGE
1	What is the title of Karoly Makk's film comedy: "Tale of 12..."	about a little nigger	about a hit	about a Stakhanovist	pepper from an ox	B	MOVIE
2	What do eastern peoples do with pilaf?	they eat it	used as incense	they play music with it	they travel on it	A	LANGUAGE
3	Shrapnel is another name for which combat tool?	tank	bomber	shrapnel grenade	mine	C	TECHNIQUE
4	What is the title of a world-famous Offenbach strawberry?	Beautiful Helena	Cow-eyed Hera	Huge Aphrodite	Old Europe	A	OPERA
5	To whose sword do we compare the ever-looming danger?	Lucullus	Pyrrhus	Damocles	Hector	C	GENERAL
6	Amalgams are alloys of which metal?	mercury	zinc	iron	nickel	A	SCIENCE
7	Who plays the main role in the movie Mad Max?	Clint Eastwood	Mel Gibson	Sylvester Stallone	Telly Savalas	B	MOVIE
8	In which city is the Csontvary Museum located?	Szentendre	Pecs	in Szombathely	In Gyr	B	HUNGARY
9	Which football team has not yet won the Hungarian championship?	Gyr ETO	Vac	On video	Danube ferry	C	SPORTS
10	Where was Erkel Bank's opera Bank performed for the first time?	in the Opera House	in the Hungarian Folk Theater in Pest	at the National Theatre	at the Buda Folk Theatre	C	OPERA
1	What does a student do when he uses an unauthorized aid to write a paper?	it slides	revolves	crib	it slings	C	GENERAL
2	In which sport is a rally held?	motorsport	riding	cycling	athletics	A	SPORTS
3	What did the ancient Greeks call themselves?	Etruscans	Hellenes	Phrygians	Celts	B	HISTORY
4	Which kitchen garden plant is grown for its edible flowers?	radish	celery	cauliflower	header image splitter	C	BIOLOGY
5	What is the name of the main character's servant in Mihaly Vorosmarty's Csongor and Tunde?	He's clumsy	Bamba	Set	Suta	A	LITERATURE
6	What does "time" do in the title of Peter Gothar's famous film?	rushes	stop	he flies away	disappear	B	MOVIE
7	Which of the following cities does not have a minaret?	Pecs	Veszprem	Worth it	Mouse	B	HISTORY
1	What type of occupation can a person be able to balance?	photo model	grocery	accountant	sumo wrestler	C	GENERAL
2	Which of the following can be called mortadella?	Italian opera singer	ice cream	cold cuts	rowing boat	C	LANGUAGE
3	Astronauts from which countries performed the first international space flight?	USA-Soviet Union	France-Soviet Union	USA-China	USA-Canada	A	SCIENCE
4	Which of the following is called corpus delicti by law?	the accused	the lawyer	the sign of sin	the judgment	C	GENERAL
5	In which sport can a control trick be performed?	in football	in hockey	in table tennis	in chess	D	SPORTS
6	Which pope reformed the calendar?	XIII. Gregory	VII. Gregory	III. Slim	II. Orban	A	HISTORY
7	Who is the female lead in James Cameron's Titanic?	Kate Winslet	Gwyneth Paltrow	Angelina Jolie	Winona Ryder	A	MOVIE
8	Which of the following can be both the name of the Japanese emperor and the name of a piece of clothing?	kendo	kimono	mikado	haiku	C	LANGUAGE
9	What is the name of the cardigan?	about a Norwegian actor	about an English nobleman	of a kind of Scottish cloth	of an Irish breed of sheep	B	LANGUAGE
10	What will be the fate of Inspector Javert at the end of Les Miserables?	they are shot at the barricades	drowns himself	get into jail	forced to emigrate	B	LITERATURE
1	Which word denotes a type of hat?	juci	kitty	Tercsi	funny	B	GENERAL
2	What are the tears of hypocritical, insincere regret called?	elephant	mammoth	crocodile	whale	C	GENERAL
3	What was Robin Hood's signature weapon?	spear	bow	mace	sling	B	LITERATURE
4	In which swimming sport did Krisztina Egerszegi win a gold medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics?	backstroke	in medley swimming	in breaststroke	in freestyle swimming	A	SPORTS
1	What do we not do "never" according to the title of Robert Koltai's film?	we die	we hunt	we step aside	we samba	A	MOVIE
2	On which part of our body can we wear a bridge and a crown?	eye	ear	nose	will	D	BIOLOGY
3	How do you call the waiter in a restaurant according to etiquette?	by whistling	with a warning	with a click	with a hiss	B	GENERAL
4	A synagogue is a church of which religion?	Catholic	Islamic	Jewish	Buddhist	C	RELIGION
5	Which is not a verb in the Hungarian language?	declarant	conditional	imperative	question	D	LANGUAGE
6	Who was XV. Is King Louis of France a famous favorite?	Mme de Sevign	Madame de Pompadour	Mme Recamier	Mme de Stael	B	HISTORY
7	What bird did Stravinsky write a ballet about?	kingfisher	firebird	Phoenix bird	petrel	B	ART
8	Who is in the title of a Durrenmatt play?	botanists	physicists	chemists	ornithologists	B	THEATER
9	Who was Polyphemus?	a one-eyed giant	Philosopher from Miletus	king of Crete	Trojan hero	A	RELIGION
1	What is said to stick out in strikingly suspicious situations?	ox horn	bear paw	snail tentacle	horse's foot	D	GENERAL
2	What match is a non-stakes football match between nations called?	gentle	friendly	acquaintance	conductor	B	SPORTS
3	What room did Petfi turn into when he wanted to light his pipe?	chamber	to the kitchen	into a small room	into a shed	B	LITERATURE
4	Which lovely animal is also called a bamboo bear?	Malay bear	raccoon	koala	panda	D	BIOLOGY
5	Which of Shakespeare's heroes did Leonardo DiCaprio play in the film?	Antonius	Hamlet	Romeo	Othello	C	MOVIE
6	Who founded the Helikon Library in Keszthely, famous for its rare books?	Karoly Esterhazy	Gyorgy Festetics	Jen of Savoy	Antal Grassalkovich	B	HISTORY
1	What was the name of the main female patron of the balls?	whale	whale mother	prom fairy	prom queen	B	GENERAL
2	Where are the buoys?	in water	in air	on the ground	underground	A	GENERAL
3	What is the origin of the famous film director Akira Kurosawa?	Chinese	Japan	Mongolian	Vietnamese	B	MOVIE
4	Who does Ervin Lazar call on in the title of his storybook to come home?	Siegfried Bruckner	I'm bummed	Mikkamakka	Horse Seraphin	C	LITERATURE
5	In which city can you visit the Paprika Museum?	in Szeged	Makon	Kalocsan	Gyulan	C	HUNGARY
6	What kind of animal is the hare?	fish	bird	insect	mammal	B	BIOLOGY
7	What is the name of the mountain peak on the Austrian-Hungarian border?	Kissing stone	Ravenstone	Written stone	Stable stone	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	Who did not become the star of silent films as a comedian?	Harold Lloyd	Buster Keaton	Rudolph Valentino	Oliver Hardy	C	MOVIE
9	Who were called bravos in the XVIII. in Italy in the 19th century?	aristocratic officers	sons of princes	the assassins	the pope's envoys	C	HISTORY
10	Where did former Hungarian Prime Minister Istvan Bethlen die?	in the United States	In Great Britain	In Switzerland	in the Soviet Union	D	HISTORY
1	What adjective do we use for people prone to theft?	sticky paws	shriveled	light-handed	magnetic palm	C	GENERAL
2	Who are the title characters of Mikszath's work?	the two beggar students	the three garaboncians	the four itinerant singers	the ten governors	A	LITERATURE
3	What are the Goths used to call an East Germanic tribe that lived in Dacia?	mountain	fields	forest	aquatic	D	HISTORY
4	Who does the equestrian statue of Janos Fadrusz in Cluj-Napoca represent?	Antalt Nagy of Buda	Gyorgy Dozsa	King Matthias	Janos Szapolyai	C	HISTORY
5	Which famous philosopher studied air pressure and hydrodynamics?	Leibniz	Pascal	Democritus	Anaxagoras	B	SCIENCE
6	How many kings ruled Hungary under the name of Matthias?	one	two	three	four	B	HISTORY
7	Where do hummingbirds get most of their food?	from trees	from other birds' nests	from the calyx of flowers	from swamp mud	C	BIOLOGY
1	What did they do with the pen?	they wrote with him	they rode on it	they fought with him	beaten to the teeth	A	GENERAL
2	Which instrument is named after one of the bones in the lower leg?	drum	flute	whistle	bassoon	C	GENERAL
3	What is the common name for rice cooker?	puffed rice	rice and meat	milk rice	risibizi	A	KITCHEN
4	In which city can the Geza Gardonyi Memorial Museum be viewed?	Kszeg	Mouse	Szigetvar	My mosquito	B	HUNGARY
5	What is the title of the popular teen horror film "I know what you did..."	with the ice pick	last summer	this year at graduation	with the chainsaw	B	MOVIE
6	What was the city of Delpoi famous for in ancient times?	about animal fairs	about his immorality	about his oracle	of his strict upbringing	C	HISTORY
7	Who is in the title of a well-known Balzac novel?	murmurers	whisperers	they are roaring	they are cheering	C	LITERATURE
8	In which swimming discipline did Tamas Darnyi win four Olympic championships?	in freestyle swimming	in butterfly	backstroke	in medley swimming	D	SPORTS
9	What was the name of the first ship to circumnavigate the globe?	A pint	Argo	Victoria	Trinidad	C	HISTORY
1	What sculptures decorate the bridgeheads of the Chain Bridge in Budapest?	horses	hippos	eagles	lions	D	GENERAL
2	What is another name for dumplings?	macaroni	spaghetti	nokedli	fell	C	KITCHEN
3	Whose or what's "captain" is in the title of Attila Dargay's cartoon?	the forest	the Tenkes	the illegals	the Orion spacecraft	A	MOVIE
4	Who was called a handle in the old days?	the lawn master	the janitor	the old lover	the civil servant	C	LANGUAGE
5	Which Hungarian celebrity's name is written incorrectly?	Imre Thokoly	Ferenc Szechenyi	Sandor Weores	Mihaly Vorosmarty	D	LANGUAGE
6	Based on whose short stories, the film The Wonderful Journey of Cornelius Esti was made?	Frigyes Karinthy	Gyula Krudy	Dezs Kosztolanyi	Geza Csath	C	LITERATURE
7	Which of the following peoples built pyramids?	the bushmen	the mayans	the vikings	the Huns	B	HISTORY
8	What substances can starch be classified under?	fats	proteins	carbohydrates	vitamins	C	BIOLOGY
9	Which singer's real name is Thomas Woodward?	Ozzy Osborne	Tom Jones	Tom Petty	Tom Waits	B	MUSIC
10	Jack Nicholson stars in which of Roman Polanski's films?	Dance of the Vampires	Chinatown	Bitter honey	Rosemary's child	B	MOVIE
11	Which of the following locations does Candide visit?	Atlantis	Eldorado	Field of Elysium	Underworld	B	LITERATURE
1	What kind of "water" do you sprinkle with at Easter?	cactus	rose	forget your name	mimosa	B	GENERAL
2	Which old saying refers to late help, late caution?	An umbrella after a downpour.	Cloak after rain.	Hat after a thunderstorm.	He eaves after heaven's blessing.	B	GENERAL
3	What is Bridget Jones in the title of the hit movie?	his laptop	his diary	notebook	calendar	B	MOVIE
4	Which holiday immediately precedes Palm Sunday?	consecration of candles	Easter	Pentecost	Christmas	B	RELIGION
5	Which plant family do bamboos belong to?	grasses	palm trees	bananas	iron grasses	A	BIOLOGY
6	Which singer's records are Like A Virgin and True Blue?	Cher	Madonna	Whitney Houston	Diana Ross	B	MUSIC
7	Who is the author of the poem "Anna is eternal"?	Balint Balassi	Mihaly Vitez Csokonai	Gyula Juhasz	arpad Toth	C	LITERATURE
8	Who was Louis the Great's queen of Hungary, Mary?	mother	her sister	his daughter	niece	C	HISTORY
9	Who created our name Etelka?	Andras Dugonics	Mor Jokai	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Golden John	A	LITERATURE
1	According to the saying, what doesn't become of a dog?	trotters	sided	bacon	fatty liver	C	GENERAL
2	What does the term "à la carte" mean?	according to the waiter	according to the menu	according to the map	according to the sky	B	GENERAL
3	Which of our Hungarian dance singers had songs in common with Geza Hofi?	Janos Koos	Gyorgy Korda	Laszlo Aradszky	Drummer Attila	A	MUSIC
4	Who is the author of the following lines? "For those who fly over it, this landscape is a map..."	Mihaly Vorosmarty	Endre Ady	Attila Jozsef	Miklos Radnoti	D	LITERATURE
5	Havasalfold is located in the territory of which present-day country?	Ukraine	Romania	Poland	Turkey	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	Where does the popular TV series Emergency take place?	in Atlanta	In Miami	In Chicago	in Anchorage	C	MOVIE
7	Which ethnic group in Hungary is the bus tour associated with?	I sell	so many	Ruthenians	shacks	B	HUNGARY
8	Which animal is the title of a duet written by Rossini?	bear	cuckoo	donkey	cat	D	OPERA
9	Who brings Lara Croft, the heroine of world-famous computer games, to life on the screen?	Denise Richards	Angelina Jolie	Jennifer Lopez	Sandra Bullock	B	MOVIE
10	Which US president announced the Apollo space program?	Truman	Kennedy	Nixon	Eisenhower	B	HISTORY
11	In whose workshop did Leonardo da Vinci study?	Mantegna	Masaccio	Veronese	Verrocchio	D	ART
1	How does jr. The title of a well-known operetta by Johann Strauss. One night...?	after wedding	and nothing else	In Venice	at Lake Venice	C	OPERA
2	What is a pendant?	cloth	commercial building	tool	runner beans	A	GENERAL
3	What is the sum of the interior angles of the quadrilateral?	0	90	180	360	D	SCIENCE
4	How does the well-known Vorosmarty quote continue? "This is good fun, …!"	it was a good thing	it was a fleeting game	it was a blessed life	it was a man's job	D	LITERATURE
5	What kind of colony was today's Algeria?	Dutch	Belgian	Spanish	French	D	HISTORY
6	How many years do we consider a human killer?	25-35	50	75-85	100	A	GENERAL
1	Where is the one standing on the teacher's platform?	kalodan	in the cathedral	catapult	in a cauldron	B	GENERAL
2	Which of the following is the title of a Petfi poem?	How do I greet you?	How do I fit in?	What shall I call you?	How many times do I call you?	C	LITERATURE
3	Which couple is the title character of Zeffirelli's world-famous 1968 film?	Csongor and Tunde	Tristan and Isolde	Romeo and Juliet	Of Orpheus and Eurydice	C	MOVIE
4	Which word is spelled incorrectly?	revue	serenity	pothole	witness	B	LANGUAGE
5	Ancient Sparta, famous for its military discipline, is located in the territory of which present-day state?	Egypt	Greece	Italy	Turkey	B	HISTORY
6	The match of which two Hungarian football club teams is called "eternal match"?	Kispest - MTK	ujpest - FTC	FTC - MTK	Iron - FTC	C	SPORTS
7	Which excellent rock musician founded the band Skorpio in 1973?	Adam Turk	Charlie Horvath	Tibor Tatra	Karoly Frenreisz	D	MUSIC
8	Where was the summit meeting of the leaders of Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Poland in 1991?	Szekesfehervarto	in Budapest	in Visegrad	in Esztergom	C	HISTORY
9	According to mythology, how was Aphrodite born?	from the foam of the sea	from a swan egg	from the sun's rays	from an apple seed	A	RELIGION
10	On which lake is Chicago located?	Lake Huron	Lake Erie	Lake Michigan	Lake Ontario	C	GEOGRAPHY
11	In which of the following cities was the university founded the earliest?	Heidelberg	Paris	Bologna	Krakow	C	SCIENCE
12	With what result did Richard Fosbury win the high jump at the Mexico Olympics?	219 cm	224 cm	226 cm	230 cm	B	SPORTS
1	What do they "push under the nose" of the person they annoy?	corn	bread	pepper	wand	C	GENERAL
2	Which of the following is called a dungeon?	lighthouse	underground prison	ancient siege engine	Australian rat	B	LANGUAGE
3	What does someone who suffers from pyromania have an unquenchable passion for?	writing	theft	arson	company establishment	C	LANGUAGE
4	What "ice" is in the title of Steven Seagal's action movie?	flaming	karate teacher	float	melting	A	MOVIE
5	According to legend, what is the name of the Greek philosopher who lives in a barrel?	Diomedes	Dionysus	Diogenes	Diocletian	C	HISTORY
6	What is the name of a plant family?	stilts	storks	storks	storks	C	BIOLOGY
1	Who can't fit in a tavern, according to the saying?	five hedgehogs	four tambourines	three accordions	two bagpipes	D	GENERAL
2	Which of the following shades of color can be expressed with the prefix "rust"?	green	blue	brown	yellow	C	GENERAL
3	What do Czechs do with dumplings?	they drink it	they eat it	they dance away	they play cards with him	B	GENERAL
4	Which pair of names belongs to the former Soviet politician, Khrushchev?	Vladimir Ilyich	Josif Viszarionovich	Sergeevich Nikita	Ilyich Leonid	C	HISTORY
5	Which of the following is the title of a Gogol work?	Battles of a Cossack	Notes of a Commissioner	The life of a musician	Diary of a Madman	D	LITERATURE
6	What is the name of the tall, upwardly narrowing memorial column?	obsidian	go there	obelisk	Odeon	C	LANGUAGE
7	In which movie does Julia Roberts play a bride who runs away from her wedding?	Altar woman	My partner is a star	What a woman!	Stop the wedding procession!	A	MOVIE
8	What kind of director did Matyas Beketow become famous for?	theater	circus	champagne factory	car factory	B	GENERAL
9	In what architectural style was the Budapest Opera House built?	classicist	neo-renaissance	neobaroque	neo-gothic	B	ARCHITECTURE
10	Who did II. To design Pope Gyula's own tomb?	Leonardo da Vinci	Michelangelo	Raphael	Donatello	B	ARCHITECTURE
11	When was the Hungarian Red Cross founded?	in 1867	in 1881	in 1895	in 1910	B	GENERAL
1	What is the popular name for an unusually tall person?	skyscraper	skywalker	tower flick	bear hider	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is not a dog breed?	basset hound	bearded collie	mastiff	chinchilla	D	BIOLOGY
3	Which of the following is the title of a well-known Petfi poem?	My spring in Papa	A summer in Kolto	An autumn in Patak	A winter in Debrecen	D	LITERATURE
1	How long does a good priest study, according to the saying?	to candlesticks	to death	until dawn	until exams	B	LANGUAGE
2	What is the origin of the name Zoran?	French	Latin	Slavic	German	C	LANGUAGE
3	Who was leader arpad's father?	Sleepy	Geza	On course	Ancestor	A	HISTORY
4	Which word is spelled incorrectly according to Hungarian rules?	difference	pudding	watercolor	intelligent	B	LANGUAGE
5	What kind of animal does the vernacular call artany?	wild boar	buffalo	pig	wolf	C	BIOLOGY
6	What kind of artist was the world-famous Maria Callas?	ballet dancer	sculptor	opera singer	painter	C	ART
7	Who destroyed Kiev in the XIII. mid century?	they are very old	Tatars	Turkish	I am Alan	B	HISTORY
8	What kind of emperor is the protagonist of Bertolucci's film The Last Emperor?	German-Roman	Ethiopian	Austrian	Chinese	D	MOVIE
1	What is another name for a zipper?	lightning bolt	Velcro	strap lock	intimate lock	A	GENERAL
2	What kind of squid is the title character of Shakespeare's work?	Florentine	of Verona	Venetian	from Milan	C	LITERATURE
3	Which species of animal bear the names brown, gray, Malay, spiny and icy?	roe	tiger	bear	rabbit	C	BIOLOGY
4	What is the official dictionary abbreviation for the mathematical term cotangent?	c	cg	ctg	ctng	C	SCIENCE
5	Which name is of Hungarian origin?	Benjamin	Bernat	Bruno	He boos	D	LANGUAGE
6	Who is responsible for the creation of the Mari Jaszai and arpad odry actors' home?	Gobbi Hilda	Eva Ruttkai	Klari Tolnay	Mari Torcsik	A	THEATER
7	According to the Bible, what was King David's original occupation?	shepherd	trader	fisherman	soldier	A	RELIGION
8	Which country's national team won the 2001 European Women's Basketball Championship?	France	Yugoslavia	Russia	Lithuania	A	SPORTS
1	According to the well-known proverb, what does the hajdu not understand?	for headstone carving	for bell casting	for horse breeding	for smoking ham	B	LANGUAGE
2	What bird is in the name of Miklos Galla's absurd theater company?	kestrel falcon	coots	raven	golden raspberry	C	GENERAL
3	What kind of person used to be called a gigerli?	gerbil breeder	ribbon seller	pumice stone	high vocal tract	C	LANGUAGE
4	Who is the Roman equivalent of Hades, the Greek god of the underworld?	Pollux	Pygmalion	Pluto	Pallas	C	RELIGION
5	Which animal's dissection part is called its snout?	offense	cattle	duck	rabbit	A	KITCHEN
6	What is the name of Jean Valjean's adopted daughter in the novel Les Miserables?	Marie	Cosette	Charlotte	Anne	B	LITERATURE
7	Charlton Heston received an Oscar for his performance in which film?	Ten Commandments	Spartacus	Ben Hur	Quo vadis?	C	MOVIE
1	How long are bank loans?	seizure	pace	race	sprain	C	GENERAL
2	What is the name of a predatory insect that also lives in Hungary?	hermit	prayer recitation	reverential	chubby	C	BIOLOGY
3	Who is called abbe in France?	roadblocks	fair comedies	doctors	secular priests	D	GENERAL
4	Who originally met at the jamboree?	diplomats	scouts	space explorers	film artists	B	GENERAL
5	In which city can Leonardo's Last Supper fresco be viewed?	in Florence	in Milan	in Rome	In Venice	B	ART
1	According to the saying, who owns the world?	for ears	guarantor	for eyes	for goosebumps	C	LANGUAGE
2	What material is Andersen's steadfast toy soldier made of?	you	lead	copper	bronze	B	LITERATURE
3	What is the title of the movie starring Michael J. Fox: "Back to ..."	into the past	into the present	into the future	into the stone age	C	MOVIE
4	What kind of food is baklava?	roast lamb	cake	soup	goat cheese	B	KITCHEN
5	When do newborn kittens' eyes open?	after a day	approx. after a week and a half	approx. after three weeks	after a month	B	BIOLOGY
6	How many times did the last French king named Louis, who died in 1824, rule as Louis?	XV.	XVI.	XVII.	XVIII	D	HISTORY
7	Petrushka is the character of which people's puppet show?	Russian	Polish	Slovak	Czech	A	GENERAL
1	What do you call frivolous, ridiculous procedures and events?	cat drama	dog comedy	freshman opera	frog operetta	B	GENERAL
2	What is the proverbial mirror of the soul?	the appetite	the laughter	eye	posture	C	GENERAL
3	Which of the following is a West African monkey?	mamba	mandala	mandrill	mangroves	C	BIOLOGY
4	Who directed the movie His Occupation: Reporter?	Roman Polanski	Francois Truffaut	Francis Ford Coppola	Michelangelo Antonioni	D	MOVIE
5	Molasses is produced as a by-product of what production?	sugar	tire	cement	steel	A	SCIENCE
6	Which empire was ruled by 9-10. Leo the Wise at the turn of the century?	Byzantine	Russian	franc	German-Roman	A	HISTORY
7	Which of the following is not the title of Jozsef Attila's poem?	Air!	At the Danube	Clarity!	The inventory is ready	C	LITERATURE
1	How does a joke express that something is self-evident?	Clean as a pig's foot	Bright as a window blind	Muddy like last year's wine	Distorted like a Venetian mirror	B	GENERAL
2	Which is one of the ingredients of French salad?	horse-radish	beetroot	mayonnaise	dill	C	KITCHEN
3	Why can't the little whale named Peter go to the ball according to Devecseri's children's poem?	he didn't write the lesson	there is not a kilometer left	he is under house arrest	he can't dance	B	LITERATURE
4	What kind of whistle was the whistle called?	sloppy	Poles	Szekely	Turkish	D	OPERA
5	Who is the oldest member of the world famous American Fonda acting dynasty?	Jane Fonda	Henry Fonda	Peter Fonda	Bridget Fonda	B	MOVIE
6	How many times was Sandor Wekerle prime minister of Hungary?	once	twice	three times	four times	C	HISTORY
7	Which word is spelled incorrectly according to Hungarian spelling rules?	photocell	photo model	photojournalist	photography	C	LANGUAGE
8	Who is Somerset Maugham's novel The Devil's Spur about?	About Van Gogh	About Gauguin	About Rimbaud	About Baudelaire	B	LITERATURE
9	Cedars are relatives of which plant?	larch	pedunculated oak	beech	sweet chestnut	A	BIOLOGY
10	What was the occupation of the well-known poet Mihaly Tompa?	soldier	doctor	lawyer	reformed minister	D	GENERAL
11	Who defeated the III. Henry the Holy Roman Emperor?	Bela I	II. Bela	III. Bela	ARC. Bela	A	HISTORY
12	Which of Shakespeare's plays was translated by Sandor Petfi?	Hamlet	Coriolanus	Much ado about nothing	Julius Caesar	B	LITERATURE
13	From whose novel did Milos Forman make his film Valmont?	Choderlos de Laclos	Denis Diderot	Restif de la Bretonne	emile Verhaeren	A	MOVIE
1	Which "circumcision" is the name of a soup noodle?	cord	string	thread	wire	C	KITCHEN
2	Who deals with the analysis of population data?	they are demagogues	demiurges	demographers	demonstrators	C	GENERAL
3	Which is the painting technique whose representatives stick small objects on the pictures?	bandage	barbecue	collage	massage	C	ART
4	Which of the following animals is a pair-toed ungulate?	rhinoceros	Shoot	donkey	offense	D	BIOLOGY
5	What was the origin of the famous playwright Lope de Vega?	Portuguese	Spanish	Mexican	Cuban	B	LITERATURE
6	Who was the Habsburg ruler among the following Hungarian kings?	Andras I	Louis I	Laszlo I	ARC. Charles	D	HISTORY
7	In which Hungarian city is the Deri Museum located?	Szolnok	Bekescsaba	in Debrecen	Miskolc	C	HUNGARY
8	Franco Zeffirelli did not direct a film from which Shakespeare play?	Romeo and Juliet	Stupid lady	Hamlet	King Lear	D	MOVIE
1	How does the saying express that someone is very flattered?	like rubbing with essential oil	like being massaged with fat	as if smeared with skin	as if I were covering myself with a pillow	C	LANGUAGE
2	What does someone who craves Camembert wish for?	red wine	cheese	onion soup	champagne	B	KITCHEN
3	Which is a breed of dog?	leghorn	from Lipica	rack	peak	D	BIOLOGY
4	What is the title of Peter Bacso's film: "You rag..."	money	life	footcloth	soul	B	MOVIE
5	What natural history is in the title of Lajos Nagy's humorous work?	can	unable	useful	useless	B	LITERATURE
6	What was the month of March called in the old days?	belated snow snow	spring waiting snow	carnival snow	fasting snow	D	LANGUAGE
1	What is the name of a pastry?	split bun	casual linzer	topisbuka	rag cookie	D	KITCHEN
2	What happens to an animal when it molts?	gives birth to offspring	it sheds the top layer of its skin	stores food	wakes up from winter sleep	B	BIOLOGY
3	Why is "three days" in the title of the film starring Robert Redford?	Falcon	vulture	eagle	swallow	B	MOVIE
4	Which city was famous in the XVII. the Globe Theater at the beginning of the century?	Berlin	Lisbon	Paris	London	D	THEATER
5	In ancient Rome, what was the name of the soldiers who were retiring at the end of their service?	they are cute	they are obese	veterans	pontiffs	C	HISTORY
6	At what age did Napoleon Bonaparte become a general?	24	38	48	54	A	HISTORY
7	Who is the protagonist of Geza Gardonyi's The Invisible Man?	Kartal	Stick it	Zeta	Jutos	C	LITERATURE
8	Which Pierrot is in the title of Jean-Luc Godard's world-famous film?	fool	bohemian	white	checkered	A	MOVIE
9	In which Mozart opera does The Queen of the Night appear?	The Marriage of Figaro	Escape from the harem	The magic flute	Don Giovanni	C	OPERA
10	Dominique Ingres excelled in which painting style?	Baroque	classicism	impressionism	surrealism	B	FINE ARTS
1	What kind of "circus" was the name of a fair show?	sorrel	flea	mosquito	at	B	GENERAL
2	Where did I go with half the money, according to the folk song?	to the neighbor	to the pub	to the forest	to the fair	D	LITERATURE
3	What do you do if you have origami as your hobby?	silk dyeing	with paper folding	with wood carving	with oriental martial arts	B	GENERAL
4	What is the title of the famous film starring Sophia Loren: "A Woman..."	and her husband	and his daughter	and a man	smell	B	MOVIE
5	Which spirit is the base of the Bloody Mary cocktail?	rum	vodka	whisky	gin	B	KITCHEN
6	When was the first female astronaut in space?	in 1963	in 1968	in 1971	in 1975	A	GENERAL
1	What does a person who pee does?	he feeds chickens	lays eggs	it becomes delicate	picks hemp seeds	C	LANGUAGE
2	Where did we "come from" according to the name of the popular board game?	From Angola	From England	From America	From Australia	C	GAME
3	What is the title of a spy movie starring Donald Sutherland?	Virgin in the haystack	A needle in a haystack	Lentils in the ashes	Tart in the wheat	B	MOVIE
4	Where did the color ebony get its name?	of a freshwater fish	from a tropical tree	about a mythical hero	of a coffee bush	B	LANGUAGE
5	Which town was the judge of Robin Hood's bitter enemy?	Manchester	Nottingham	York	Birmingham	B	LITERATURE
6	Where did Jozsef Bem emigrate to after the Hungarian War of Independence?	to France	to Turkey	to Piedmont	to Poland	B	HISTORY
7	Which Greek hero of divine origin became immortal by rising to heaven from his funeral pyre?	Eurydice's	For Winter Makhos	Kharon	Herakles	D	RELIGION
1	Which one has a kitchen and meat cutting version?	broadsword	bard	hatchet	jatagan	B	KITCHEN
2	What kind of soldier was called a recruit?	rookie	dismantler	a deserter	volunteer	A	LANGUAGE
3	Where does he go who goes on the turf?	to the bank	to the casino	to the stock market	to the racetrack	D	LANGUAGE
4	What is the common name for ascorbic acid?	amino acid	hydrochloric acid	Vitamin C	methane	C	SCIENCE
5	According to Hamlet, what is "woman's name"?	nastiness	peccadillo	lust	vanity	B	LITERATURE
6	Which film won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 2001?	Chocolate	Gladiator	Tiger and dragon	Traffic	B	MOVIE
7	What does Tamas Ascher do?	director	opera singer	ballet dancer	painter	A	ART
8	What is the dominant religion in the Philippines?	Hindu	Islamic	Buddhist	Catholic	D	RELIGION
1	What were the knowledgeable women involved in the arts called?	green lace	blue stockings	purple jumpsuit	red beanie	B	GENERAL
2	What kind of vehicle do you have?	fighter plane	warship	submarine	tank	B	TECHNIQUE
3	What kind of fairy tale hero is in the work of Jen Jozsi Misi Tersanszky?	bear	squirrel	dwarf	dragon	B	LITERATURE
4	What is the title of Steven Spielberg's movie: "Indiana Jones and the Doom..."	his wife	church	power	whip	B	MOVIE
5	What's your tree like?	loud	boring	scattered	dreamer	B	LANGUAGE
6	Which settlement is not located on the southern shore of Lake Balaton?	Fonyod	Badacsony	Zamardi	Siofok	B	GEOGRAPHY
7	Which Hungarian referee won an Olympic gold medal as a footballer?	Karoly Palotai	Laszlo Vagner	Alexander Puhl	Istvan Zsolt	A	SPORTS
8	Janos Husz, who was burned as a heretic, was a teacher at the university of which city?	Paris	Prague	Bologna	Oxford	B	HISTORY
9	Where is a bilux light in a car?	in the index	in the headlight	in the reversing light	in the interior lighting	B	TECHNIQUE
10	Which rock band wrote the soundtrack to the Antonioni film "Zabriskie Point"?	Led Zeppelin	Pink Floyd	Dire Straits	Yes	B	MOVIE
1	What do you call a gluttonous person?	belly button	stomach churning	stomach spider	laxative	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of word is in the title of Endre Ady's poem?	royal	count	Spanish	Palatine	B	LITERATURE
3	In which art did Gyorgy Solti become world famous?	sculpture	painting	film art	music art	D	ART
4	On which continent is Swaziland located?	Africa	Australia and Oceania	Asia	South America	A	GEOGRAPHY
5	When is the autumnal equinox in the Northern Hemisphere?	September 23	September 27	October 23	October 27	A	SCIENCE
6	In which opera is the Humming Chorus performed?	Verdi: Traviata	Puccini: Miss Butterfly	Mascagni: Peasant honor	Rossini: Vilmos Tell	B	OPERA
1	According to the saying, what does someone who monotonously repeats a text they have heard or learned do?	cuckoo	lark bowl	ear canal	parrot	D	GENERAL
2	Which of the following can be "stentoric"?	voice	hearing	silence	procrastination	A	GENERAL
3	According to the poem, where does Petfi stop at the sunset of the summer day?	in front of the family gate	under her baby's window	at the winding Tisza	in a wild pine forest	C	LITERATURE
4	Who will be interviewed in Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt's joint film?	with a mummy	with a vampire	with a werewolf	with a golem	B	MOVIE
5	Whose ruler was Karoly the Bald?	Englishmen	Vikings	francs	Byzantines	C	HISTORY
6	Where is Roswell, famous for the alleged UFO crash?	in Canada	In Great Britain	in Australia	in the USA	D	GENERAL
7	Who wrote the piano piece Hungarian Rhapsody?	Ferenc Liszt	Johannes Brahms	Bela Bartok	Ern Dohnanyi	A	OPERA
8	Which famous Hungarian historical figure was sentenced to death in absentia?	Ferenc Deak	age Gyulat Andrassy	Jozsef Eotvos	Janos Irinyi	B	HISTORY
9	What is the nationality of the rock band U2?	Irish	Australian	English	American	A	MUSIC
1	What does the blind man not see, according to the saying?	the meadow from poppies	the rose from the thorn	the horse from oats	the forest from the trees	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which priestly dignity can be the symbol of the color purple?	bishop	chaplain	chapterless	archbishop	A	RELIGION
3	In which art form did Zoltan Kocsis become world famous?	music	painting	film art	architecture	A	ART
4	Who was Delilah's lover in the Bible?	David	Samson	Moses	Joseph	B	RELIGION
5	Which country is Monaco's only neighbor?	Italy	Spain	France	Switzerland	C	GEOGRAPHY
6	Which of the following rocks is not of volcanic origin?	andesite	basalt	marble	tufa	C	GEOGRAPHY
7	orzse is the mother of the main character of which musical stage play?	Jen Huszka: Prince Bob	Zoltan Kodaly: Janos Hary	Ferenc Erkel: Gyorgy Dozsa	Kacsoh Pongrac: Brave Janos	B	OPERA
8	What is the title of a famous Hitchcock film?	Front door	Back window	Attic access	Blind window	B	MOVIE
9	Who was the German chancellor during the 1972 Munich Olympics?	Willy Brandt	Konrad Adenauer	Helmut Schmidt	Helmut Kohl	A	HISTORY
10	Which city's skyline is on the ten thousand HUF banknote?	Buddha	Esztergom	Mouse	Muddy stream	B	GENERAL
11	What was the Russian unit of measure, the pud, used to measure?	tonnage	length	weight	area	C	SCIENCE
12	Which of the following did not win the Academy Award for Best Picture?	Now and forever	Some people like it hot	The sound of Music	Around the Earth in 80 days	B	MOVIE
13	When did the Museum of Fine Arts officially open?	in the reform era	in the year of settlement	the XX at the beginning of the century	the II. after World War II	C	GENERAL
14	Which of the following operas is not part of Puccini's Triptych?	The cloak	Daughter of the West	Sister Angelica	Gianni Schicchi	B	OPERA
15	Who was called kenez in Transylvania?	the village judge	the village priest	the village teacher	the village gendarmerie	A	LANGUAGE
1	What kind of wood is used to support and fasten railroad tracks?	shamf	plywood	sleeper	satrap tree	C	GENERAL
2	Who uses the palette while creating?	coppersmiths	poets	painters	composers	C	GENERAL
3	According to the folk song, where do many fish spawn?	in the Danube	in Balaton	in the Tisza	in Lake Venice	B	LITERATURE
4	The parliament of which state is the Duma?	Bulgaria	Poland	Russia	Romania	C	GENERAL
5	Which of the following foods is one of the ingredients of bird's milk?	cottage cheese	egg	walnut	jam	B	KITCHEN
6	Which of the following Northern European countries is not a constitutional monarchy?	Denmark	Norway	Sweden	Iceland	D	COUNTRIES
7	Which historical figure did Aram Khachaturja write a ballet about?	Napoleon	Spartacus	Miltiades	Columbus	B	ART
8	What experiments was Bikini Atoll the site of?	American atomic bomb	French ornithology	marine biological	earthquake research	A	SCIENCE
9	On which river is Turin located?	Piave	Arno	Poe	Tevere	C	GEOGRAPHY
1	Where, according to the saying, does the foodie live?	also in a bear cave	also in a pack of wolves	also on the back of ice	even with a married woman	C	LANGUAGE
2	According to folklore, the sleepwalker is pathologically attracted to which celestial body?	To the moon	For the day	To Venus	To Mars	A	GENERAL
3	What opera about "honor" did Mascagni write?	worker	outlaw	woman	peasant	D	OPERA
4	What did women use in the 19th century? century the vegetable?	worn as a garment	they cooked in it	to hold meetings	to make music	A	LANGUAGE
5	Where can you view the archaeological find known as Lehel's horn?	in Veszprem	in Jaszbereny	in Debrecen	in Sopron	B	HUNGARY
6	Eusebio was a member of which country's national team?	Portugal	Spain	Brazil	Argentina	A	SPORTS
1	How does the saying express that someone has counted himself out?	He ran the wrong greyhound	He shot the wrong rabbit	He put me on the wrong horse	He molested the wrong bear	C	LANGUAGE
2	In which organ is the iris?	ear	heart	eye	brain	C	BIOLOGY
3	What does a woman wear?	nails	her hair	hand	eyelids	B	GENERAL
4	Who was the national defense minister of the Antall government?	Geza Jeszenszky	Lajos Fur	George Keleti	Gyorgy Szabad	B	HISTORY
5	Which band was founded by Rezs Soltesz?	Express	Apostle	Corvina	Neoton	C	MUSIC
6	Who won the Oscar for Best Actress in 2001?	Sharon Stone	Julia Roberts	Kim Basinger	Juliette Binoche	B	MOVIE
7	How many points should you not stop in the card game called twenty-one?	15	16	17	18	A	GAME
8	Which band did Peter Gabriel and Phil Collins play in?	Pink Floyd	Yes	Genesis	Dire Straits	C	MUSIC
1	What is another name for your drinking buddy?	beer brother	beer brother-in-law	spirit brother	splash	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of person does the vernacular call golyho?	chubby	simple	he is bald	clever	B	LANGUAGE
3	Polonium was named after which country?	Portugal	Poland	Czech Republic	France	B	SCIENCE
4	What was the nationality of Ayrton Senna, the Formula 1 driver who died in tragic circumstances?	Spanish	Argentine	Italian	Brazilian	D	SPORTS
5	Who was elected prince of Transylvania in 1704?	Janos Kemeny	Imret Thokoly	II. Apafi Mihalyt	II. Ferenc Rakoczi	D	HISTORY
6	Which apostle plunged his fingers into Jesus' wounds to confirm his resurrection?	Peter	Jakab	Thomas	Andrew	C	RELIGION
7	What animals are armadillos?	Pisces	birds	crabs	reptiles	A	BIOLOGY
1	What insect is a swimming genus named after?	grasshopper	ant	butterfly	wasp	C	SPORTS
2	How many degrees are the interior angles of an equilateral triangle?	180	60	90	45	B	SCIENCE
3	The novel Tamas batya kunyhoja is closely related to which nation's civil war?	American	English	Spanish	Russian	A	LITERATURE
4	How can some unicellular organisms move?	with a duck	with a tendril	with eyelashes	with a tentacle	C	BIOLOGY
5	What kind of soup does someone who cooks cauliflower soup make?	broccoli	cauliflower	kohlrabi	cabbage	B	KITCHEN
6	The ruins of ancient Carthage are located in the territory of which present-day state?	Greece	Libya	Turkey	Tunisia	D	HISTORY
7	Geometric shapes are the typical representational tools of which visual art trend?	eclecticism	Fauvism	cubism	activism	C	ART
1	What is the name of offensive, fake music?	dog music	pig music	cat music	sheep music	C	GENERAL
2	What animals have humps?	for birds	for fish	for amphibians	for reptiles	A	BIOLOGY
3	Which of the following countries has no coastline?	Albania	Bulgaria	Slovenia	Macedonia	D	GEOGRAPHY
4	Which expression is used during a katy game?	banzai	buggy	party	spree	C	GAME
5	Which Hungarian king captured Vienna?	Laszlo I	II. Andrew	Louis the Great	Matthias	D	HISTORY
6	What is the central theme of the epic The Iliad?	the search for the golden fleece	revolt of the titans	the birth of the gods	Siege of Troy	D	LITERATURE
7	On whose album is the track Lovolde ter?	Gabor Presser	Soon	Andras Kern	Peter Geszti	C	MUSIC
8	Whose baptism does Gyula Benczur's famous painting depict?	Jesus	Saint John	Butter	For Saint Gellert	C	ART
9	In which country did the whistlers serve?	China	India	Japan	Egypt	B	HISTORY
10	In which Verdi opera is the famous Freedom Duet performed?	Aida	The troubadour	Don Carlos	Nabucco	C	OPERA
1	How does the proverbial irresponsible spender scatter his money?	left hand	with the right hand	with gloved hands	with two hands	D	GENERAL
2	Why is it "good to be a soldier now" according to the folk song?	because the war is over	because the uniform is new	because they are recruiting for Kossuth	because the captain is getting married	C	LANGUAGE
3	What are unsold copies called in the magazine?	reprint	remittance	review	referendum	B	GENERAL
4	In which country is Capeland located?	Argentina	Australia	Republic of South Africa	India	C	GEOGRAPHY
5	In which sport did the Jonyer-Klampar couple win the world championship?	tennis	figure skating	table tennis	kayak canoe	C	SPORTS
6	The landmark of which city is the huge statue of Christ with outstretched arms?	Manila	Buenos Aires	Rio de Janeiro	Veracruz	C	COUNTRIES
7	Which movie hero was shaped by Harrison Ford?	Obi-Wan Kenobi	Indiana Jones	Hercule Poirot	Ben Hur	B	MOVIE
8	The novel My Father is the memoir of the daughter of which famous writer?	Laszlo Nemeth	Zsigmond Moricz	Gyula Illyes	Ferenc Mora	A	LITERATURE
1	Which word is used in the trade to denote cheese?	bulk	ruined it	punched	poached	A	KITCHEN
2	How did the Indians make the canoe?	they were fired from clay	hollowed out of a tree trunk	reeds were tied together	woven from palm leaves	B	GENERAL
3	What works made the French Herve famous?	his paintings	his operettas	mosaics	his sculptures	B	ART
4	In which of our counties is the city of Mako, famous for its onions, located?	Fierce	Bacs-Kiskun	Csongrad	Hajdu-Bihar	C	HUNGARY
5	Which one was called a dramolett?	the overweight actress	the shorter play	the older female role	the smaller theater	B	THEATER
6	Nights and Days was the first LP of which singer?	Pal Szecsi	Gyorgy Korda	Peter Matthew	Janos Koos	C	MUSIC
7	Vidkun Quisling was the prime minister of which country during World War II. during World War II?	France	Norway	Belgium	Italy	B	HISTORY
1	Who are the main characters of the series Emergency?	car racers	police officers	doctors	commandos	C	MOVIE
2	What part do we call the largest part of something?	elephant	mammoth	Lion	whale	C	LANGUAGE
3	What is Tigger's favorite food in Milne's Pooh?	the honey	the thistle	castor oil	cod liver oil	D	LITERATURE
4	Which of the following is not a peninsula?	Crimea	Balkan	Labrador	Greenland	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	Who fought the Peloponnesian War?	Rome and Carthage	Athens and Sparta	Lord and Lord	Memphis and Thebes	B	HISTORY
6	Which actress won an Oscar for her performance in Ghost?	Whoopi Goldberg	Demi Moore	Michelle Pfeiffer	Barbra Streisand	A	MOVIE
7	Which band owned the LP "Fifth Speed"?	Hungary	Bergendy	Neoton Familia	Express	B	MUSIC
8	In which city was Mozart's opera Don Giovanni premiered?	Venice	Vienna	Prague	Salzburg	C	OPERA
1	According to the saying, what happens to those who drink the water of the Tisza?	he longs back	he sees a mirage	he will not be thirsty	it turns gray	A	LANGUAGE
2	In which sea is the island of Sicily?	Aegean sea	Baltic Sea	North Sea	Mediterranean Sea	D	GEOGRAPHY
3	What is the term used to refer to a military uniform?	straitjacket	angel skin	buckball	hussar's robe	B	LANGUAGE
4	Who do we see in the works of art depicting puttos?	harvesting workers	mythological monsters	chubby angels	early Christian martyrs	C	FINE ARTS
5	Which of the following is the title of a popular Zilahy novel?	The wind is blowing something	The water carries something	The pine whispers something	Misery dreams of something	B	LITERATURE
6	Where was the dance of the Bayaders originally seen?	in Japan	in Argentina	In Egypt	in India	D	ART
7	Which is the most completely transformed, oldest type of coal?	anthracite	lignite	on lignite	on black stone	A	GEOGRAPHY
1	What is the name of a two-player game?	bacterium	bacillus	into amoeba	algae	C	GAME
2	What queen did Imre Kalman write an operetta about?	bee	fairy	English	tavern	D	OPERA
3	Havana is the capital of which country?	Guatemala	Honduras	Panama	Cuba	D	COUNTRIES
4	Whose gathering and burial places were the catacombs?	Egyptian slaves	first Christians	Roman aristocrats	medieval monks	B	HISTORY
5	Where was high school teacher Janos Arany?	Nagysalontan	Kisujszallas	Nagykros	Aradon	C	LITERATURE
6	In which city can the Balint Balassi Museum be visited?	in Esztergom	Tatan	in Eger	In Gyr	A	HUNGARY
7	Who is the main character in Jean-Luc Godard's movie Until You Suffocate?	Alain Delon	Jean-Paul Belmondo	Pierre Richard	Gerard Depardieu	B	MOVIE
8	Which of our Olympic champions did not win a gold medal in athletics?	Colonial Olga	agnes Keleti	Mrs Ibolya Csak Kadar	Angela Nemeth	B	SPORTS
9	In which city was NATO founded in 1949?	in Brussels	in Washington	in Paris	in Newyork	B	HISTORY
10	Which famous writer's original name is Jozsef Brenner?	Istvan Tomorkeny	Geza Csath	Sandor Marai	Jen Rejt	B	LITERATURE
1	Which word denotes a type of boot?	primate	hitting on me	ramp	cramming	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which of our organs has a root and a crown?	eye	heart	will	ear	C	BIOLOGY
3	What closet did Ferenc Farkas write his comedy about?	refrigerator	armor	mirrored	magic	D	OPERA
4	Which animal is not a ruminant?	goat	giraffe	tapir	cattle	C	BIOLOGY
5	To which biblical city did the Lord send Jonah to warn its inhabitants to repent?	Nineveh	Jericho	Sodom	Jerusalem	A	RELIGION
1	What is another name for a double bed?	Prussian bed	spartan bed	double bed	sofa bed	C	GENERAL
2	What is the Korhely man like?	sitting at home	entertainer	very old	rude	B	LANGUAGE
3	In which Italian city can we see the ancient ruins of the Circus Maximus?	Milan	Taranto	Naples	Rome	D	HISTORY
4	Which type of saw is it?	foxtail	hairy	cat's whiskers	mouse tooth	A	GENERAL
5	What is Papageno's occupation in Mozart's opera The Magic Flute?	birdwatcher	fisherman	hunter	canadian	A	OPERA
6	In which county is the town of Szentes located?	peaceful	Fierce	Csongrad	Tolna	C	HUNGARY
7	Who was prime minister Istvan Tisza to Prime Minister Kalman Tisza?	his father	son	his cousin	his brother	B	HISTORY
8	Who wrote a one-act play entitled Dunakanyar?	Ferenc Karinthy	Istvan orkeny	Endre Illes	Imre Sarkadi	A	LITERATURE
1	What is the name of a dish made with dumplings and hot dogs?	bulldog	Danish dog	hot dog	pit bull	C	KITCHEN
2	What kind of insect is the mosquito that lives in the tropics?	ant	bug	mosquito	dragonfly	C	BIOLOGY
3	What means of transport is in the title of one of the songs of the band Fonograf?	the last subway	the first tram	the lost trolley	the broken bus	B	MUSIC
4	What is called a dacha in Russia?	string instrument	holiday home	intended for two horses	Siberian fox	B	LANGUAGE
5	Ridley Scott's Hannibal is a sequel to which film?	The eighth passenger: death	Silence of the Lambs	Gladiator	Seventh	B	MOVIE
6	Which country's national team won the 2001 European Women's Water Polo Championship?	Yugoslavia	Hungary	Italy	The Netherlands	B	SPORTS
7	Laszlo Nemeth wrote a drama about which famous scientist?	Newton	Galileo	Darwin	Linnaeus	B	LITERATURE
8	Which lost animal is one of Jesus' parables about?	donkey	dog	sheep	pig	C	RELIGION
9	Which country did the famous painter Edvard Munch come from?	England	Sweden	Norway	Scotland	C	ART
10	Who was the first director of the Hungarian Theater in Pest, which opened in 1837?	Gergely Csiky	Jozsef Bajza	Ede of Szigliget	Paulay Ede	B	THEATER
11	Who was not one of the film comedians Marx Brothers?	Groucho	Harold	Chico	Harpo	B	MOVIE
12	In which country was the world-famous guitarist Carlos Santana born?	Brazil	USA	Mexico	Cuba	C	MUSIC
1	Who will fight the bull in the bullfight?	conquistador	bullfighter	inquisitor	terminator	B	GENERAL
2	What kind of fine art is watercolor?	watercolor	oil painting	etching	woodcut	A	FINE ARTS
3	What was the common European name for the office of the Turkish Grand Vizier?	vilayet	door	seraglio	turbe	B	HISTORY
4	At which track is the Formula 1 Italian Grand Prix held?	Interlagos	Monza	Imola	Monte Carlo	B	SPORTS
5	Who are the heroes of Haho, Ocsi! fairy tale film?	Berzzian and Dideki	Vacskamati and Mikkamakka	Kokojszi and Bobojsza	Lolka and Bolka	C	MOVIE
6	Falstaff is a character in which play?	The Salem Witches	Windsor comedy women	Macbeth	The miser	B	LITERATURE
1	What is the stage name of today's popular magician who "penetrated" the Great Wall of China?	Tom Sawyer	David Copperfield	Oliver Twist	Mowgli	B	GENERAL
2	What "little animals" are single-celled?	mommy	slippers	excuse me	moccasins	B	BIOLOGY
3	Which term is used in the card game called kanasta?	icing	freezing	melting	boiling	B	GAME
4	Rakoczi Castle is a landmark of which settlement?	Strawberry	Muddy stream	Knife brand	Bartwood	B	HUNGARY
5	What is the name of a virtuoso cycle of poems edited according to strict rules?	ballad singing	sonnet wreath	a bunch of songs	ode flower	B	LITERATURE
6	What artefacts did Ferenc Hopp's collection donated to the Hungarian state consist of?	Italian Renaissance	French Impressionist	far Eastern	Central African	C	ART
1	From which part of the house did the upper vault of the oral cavity get its name?	roof	cellar	hard	attic	D	BIOLOGY
2	Which one is measured with traffipax?	the driver's alcohol level	the speed of vehicles	the composition of the exhaust gas	the wear resistance of the tire	B	GENERAL
3	Which theater was eva Ruttkai a member of from 1951 until her death?	National Theatre	Comedy theater	Madach Theater	Jozsef Attila Theater	B	THEATER
4	How did Danton die?	killed in street fights	had an accident	was executed	poisoned	C	HISTORY
5	Which art form is Cameron Diaz a representative of?	painter	sculptor	actor	singer	C	ART
6	In which sport did Peter Farkas win a gold medal at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics?	boxing	wrestling	pentathlon	judo	B	SPORTS
7	What do Italians do with cannelloni?	they eat it	they travel on it	they play music with it	they drink it	A	LANGUAGE
8	What is the title of Francoise Sagan's famous work? "Do you like …?"	Mozart	Schubert	Bach	Brahms	D	OPERA
9	In which city is Puccini's opera Turandot set?	in Beijing	in Seville	in Paris	in Boston	A	MUSIC
10	Which animal name can be prefixed with musk other than pock?	raja	deer	squirrel	coat	B	BIOLOGY
11	Whose student was Jozsef Rippl-Ronai?	Laszlo Paal	Mihaly Munkacsy	Gyula Benczur	Bertalan Szekely	B	ART
1	According to the saying, what does someone who tries without seeing the right solution do?	stumbling in the basement	groping in the dark	caving without a lantern	torchless motorcycle	B	LANGUAGE
2	Which bird name is spelled incorrectly?	carvallo	Seagull	parrot	stork	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which preserves the name of the French woman Recamier?	a recliner	a type of textile	a type of ship	a card game	A	LANGUAGE
4	Which city received the right to host the 2008 Summer Olympic Games?	Toronto	Paris	Athens	Peking	D	SPORTS
5	Who used to be the supervisor of measuring drinks in the city pubs?	shunt master	wine judge	inn commissar	sergeant	B	GENERAL
6	What is the title of Marco Ferreri's famous scandal movie: "The big ..."	drinking	bad luck	gobbling up	courtesan	C	MOVIE
7	The president of the republic of which country was the victim of the assassination, Anvar Szad?	Syria	Egypt	Sudan	Philippines	B	HISTORY
8	What was the name of the men who fished, hunted, and hunted birds in the marshland?	cook	pair of columns	Ordinance	goloncser	A	GENERAL
9	Which singer was a founding member of the band Scampolo?	Sandor Revesz	Mihaly Moricz	Laszlo Komar	Ferenc Szigeti	C	MUSIC
10	What animal is Bandi in Orwell's Animal Farm?	pig	Shoot	goat	donkey	B	LITERATURE
11	The king of which city is Sisyphus?	Smyrna	Eleusis	Corinth	Miletus	C	LITERATURE
12	Which of the listed composers is not classified as one of the creators of Viennese classicism?	Mozart	Haydn	Mahler	Beethoven	C	OPERA
1	What was the name of one of Thor Heyerdahl's legendary expeditions?	Riki-Tiki-Tevi	Kon-Tiki	King Kong	Ku-Kori	B	GENERAL
2	What kind of glaze is the isler coated with?	caramel	chocolate	marzipan	punch	B	KITCHEN
3	What kind of person did the vernacular call the voice actor?	poetic vein	way of eloquence	unreliable	profanity	C	LANGUAGE
4	What is the name of the trade route that has been used since prehistoric times and also passes through Hungary?	hemp road	amber road	silk road	ore way	B	HISTORY
5	Annie Fischer was a world-renowned artist of which instrument?	violin	cello	harp	piano	D	OPERA
6	Who did Montecuccoli's teams win against at Szentgotthard?	Prussians	French	Turkish	Austrians	C	HISTORY
7	What is the title of Sophie Marceau's first film?	They are howling	Homeparty	D'Artagnan's daughter	Cat food	B	MOVIE
8	Which of the following is henna used for?	for shipping	for adhesive production	for hair and body painting	for carpet weaving	C	GENERAL
9	What does the letter "W" mean in the name of US President George W. Bush?	Walker	Winston	William	Walter	A	GENERAL
1	The spring element of the firing mechanism of rifles bears the name of which poultry?	goose	turkey	rooster	guinea fowl	C	GENERAL
2	What tool was called a cheese in the vernacular?	single eared vessel	lesser degree	spitting spoon	carved newspaper stand	A	GENERAL
3	How many karats is colored gold?	18	20	24	42	C	SCIENCE
4	Which of the following is not a city on the banks of the Tisza?	Tokaj	Shack	Small circle	Jaszbereny	D	GEOGRAPHY
1	What kind of fairy tale is a transparent lie called?	midwife	nanny	au pair	baby sitter	B	GENERAL
2	What are chips made of?	from corn	from potatoes	of hazelnuts	from chestnuts	B	KITCHEN
3	Which of the following terms best describes a sanguine person?	flammable	cold-blooded	sad	considered	A	LANGUAGE
4	In which sea or ocean is the island of Mallorca?	Mediterranean Sea	Pacific ocean	Adriatic sea	Atlantic Ocean	A	GEOGRAPHY
5	In which country was Federic Chopin born?	French	Polish	Russian	Austrian	B	OPERA
6	The Grimaldi are the rulers of which European state?	Belgium	Spain	Monaco	Norway	C	HISTORY
1	What do conciliatory Indians dig, according to the saying?	bloody saddle	battle feather ornament	hatchet	scalping dagger	C	LANGUAGE
2	Which word means clown or bell pepper?	hector	harlequin	hippie	hippodrome	B	LANGUAGE
3	In which country is the Brittany peninsula located?	Canada	Belgium	France	Spain	C	GEOGRAPHY
4	At whose invitation does Bank ban return home at the beginning of the drama?	Gertrude	Melinda	Petur cares	Tibor	C	LITERATURE
5	Which of the following can be seladon?	an extinct primitive creature	a young suitor	a huge dog	an ashen hair	B	LANGUAGE
6	Who was the penultimate arpad house king?	III. Laszlo	ARC. Bela	ARC. Laszlo	III. Andrew	C	HISTORY
7	At which Olympics did the Hungarian national football team become Olympic champions for the first time?	1952 Helsinki	1960 Roman	1964 Tokyo	1968 Mexico City	A	SPORTS
8	Who directed the classic of Italian neorealist film Rome the Open City?	Federico Fellini	Roberto Rossellini	Vittorio De Sica	Michelangelo Antonioni	B	MOVIE
1	What is King Edward in the poem The Welsh Bards?	fallow	pale	gebe	lame	B	LITERATURE
2	How are some Central American countries called?	orange kingdoms	banana republics	lemon dictatorships	pineapple monarchies	B	COUNTRIES
3	What kind of Sunday do we call the last Sunday immediately before Christmas?	marble	ratio	diamond	platinum	B	RELIGION
4	What is the club color of the ujpest TE sports association?	blue and white	red-blue	green and white	purple and white	D	SPORTS
5	Which of the following is not a radioactive element?	magnesium	polonium	uranium	radium	A	SCIENCE
6	What does Parmesan cheese get its name from?	about an Italian city	about cow breed	about a monastic order	from a Sicilian mountain	A	KITCHEN
7	In which city is the Pergamon Museum located?	Athens	Berlin	Vienna	Paris	B	COUNTRIES
8	Which singer starred in "The Witches of Eastwick"?	Madonna	Whitney Houston	Cher	Suzanne Vega	C	MOVIE
9	About whom did the Italian humanist Galeotto Marzio write an anecdotal book?	About Cesare Borgia	About Leonardo	On Janus Pannonius	About King Matthias	D	LITERATURE
10	What did the trappers do?	by breaking in horses	with fur hunting	with gold washing	with tobacco cultivation	B	GENERAL
11	What animal was the name of the lunar shuttle from which the first man stepped on the moon?	Falcon	eagle	owl	albatross	B	GENERAL
12	In which year did Hungary join the UN?	1955	1949	1945	1958	A	HISTORY
1	What is the name of spirits flavored with herbal extracts?	bittersweet	bitters	liver acid	larynx cutter	B	GENERAL
2	How does the saying continue? "As many houses as there are..."	tax	landlady	habit	chamber	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which of the following is a waterfowl?	tern	strip	kiss	chirping	A	BIOLOGY
4	Which band sang about "Old scumbags"?	Elijah	Generate	Omega	Hungary	C	MUSIC
5	Which of the following European mini-states is a republic?	San Marino	Andorra	Monaco	Liechtenstein	A	COUNTRIES
6	What does someone who often turns polyglots like to read?	multi-volume books	multilingual books	DIY books	children's books	B	LANGUAGE
1	What is the name of a popular market stall?	fortune teller	Sandor tent	mint	small kitchen	D	GENERAL
2	What was the set of rules for duels called?	duel catalog	dueling codex	dueling brochure	duel index	B	GENERAL
3	What animal is Ears in Winnie the Pooh?	rabbit	donkey	elephant	spaniel	B	LITERATURE
4	The famous ruined city, Machu Picchu, is located in the territory of which present-day state?	Colombia	Peru	Chile	Brazil	B	HISTORY
5	Who wrote the piano piece Fur Elise?	Schubert	Beethoven	Chopin	Mozart	B	OPERA
6	Which of the following cities hosted the Olympics only once?	Rome	London	Paris	Los Angeles	A	SPORTS
1	What is not moved by the person who pretends to have heard nothing?	the apple of his eye	the freckles on his cheeks	the stick of his ear	tooth protein	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of drink is Tramini?	wheat beer	Skin	rum	orange juice	B	KITCHEN
3	Who is the god of the sea in Roman mythology?	Neptune	Mercury	Pluto	Saturn	A	RELIGION
4	Hepatitis is an infectious disease of which organ?	heart	kidney	lungs	liver	D	BIOLOGY
5	Enver Hoxha was the first member of the communist party of which country?	Albania	Syria	Turkey	Bulgaria	A	HISTORY
6	Which band sang: "It's hard to say goodbye to happiness."?	Apostle	Bergendy	Corvina	Dynamite	A	MUSIC
7	Which of the following chemical elements is not present in nitric acid?	oxygen	chlorine	nitrogen	hydrogen	B	SCIENCE
8	What does the name Captain Nemo mean?	nobody	unknown	anonymous	hiding	A	LITERATURE
1	What kind of mother is in the title of the well-known Brecht play?	Curious	Courageous	Stelazsi	Balazsy	B	LITERATURE
2	What does a graphologist analyze?	physiological phenomena	natural phenomena	writing pictures	phantom images	C	GENERAL
3	What is the name of Constantinople today?	Ankara	Izmir	Smyrna	Istanbul	D	HISTORY
4	Which band's big hit was the song "Yesterday"?	Beatles	Rolling Stones	Bee Gees	Beach Boys	A	MUSIC
5	An art and culture center in Paris was named after which French president?	Charles de Gaulle	Georges Pompidou	François Mitterrand	Jacques Chirac	B	GENERAL
6	Which movie hero's father is Darth Vader?	James Bond	Luke Skywalker	Han Solo	Superman	B	MOVIE
7	Which athletic event was never included in the ancient Olympics?	long jump	javelin throw	high jump	discus throwing	C	SPORTS
1	What do you affectionately call children who deserve punishment?	rose petal	poppy flower	poppy pollen	peach pie	B	GENERAL
2	What insect is featured in Petfi's poem "My Motherland"?	yellow exchange beetle	spotted ladybug	buzzing night bug	scarlet scarab	A	LITERATURE
3	Which of the following is not a citizen girl who plays chess?	Anna	Judith	Zsuzsa	Sophie	A	GENERAL
4	Which celestial body in the Solar System is called the "red planet"?	Jupiter	Venus	Mars	Mercury	C	SCIENCE
5	Where is the sunflower native to?	in Europe	in America	in Africa	in Asia	B	BIOLOGY
6	Who were the founders of Cape Town?	German colonists	Portuguese sailors	Dutch merchants	English pirates	C	HISTORY
1	What does a doubting person do, according to the saying?	he's whining	leans on	he is lying	he's getting sick	B	GENERAL
2	How many players can play robber ult at once?	three	four	five	six	A	GAME
3	In which city was Jesus crucified?	in Bethlehem	In Jerusalem	in Rome	In Nazareth	B	RELIGION
4	Where does the computer store programs?	in the memory	in the memory	in the memoir	in the memorandum	B	TECHNIQUE
5	In which sport did Monspart Sarolta win the world championship in 1972?	archery	bowling	rowing	orienteering	D	SPORTS
6	Who was not a founding member of the Locomotive GT band?	Jozsef Laux	Tamas Barta	Karoly Freinreisz	Tamas Somlo	D	MUSIC
7	What religion's holiday is Purim?	Islamic	Christian	Buddhist	Jewish	D	RELIGION
8	Drinapoly, known from history, is located in the territory of which present-day country?	Greece	Turkey	Italy	Yugoslavia	B	HISTORY
1	Which animal's known species are elk, reindeer and reindeer?	turtle	penguin	flea	deer	D	BIOLOGY
2	What well-known type of food carries the tsecsi label?	bacon	salami	cottage cheese	cheese	A	KITCHEN
3	Which color is not in the flag of Romania?	blue	yellow	red	green	D	COUNTRIES
4	Carbon is the Latin name for which chemical element?	calcium	coal	sulfur	copper	B	SCIENCE
5	Who among the following is not an Austrian composer?	Schubert	Britain	Mahler	Haydn	B	OPERA
6	In which year did Hungary become a full member of NATO?	in 1995	in 1997	in 1999	in 2001	C	HISTORY
7	Erik the Red, the explorer, was one of the well-known representatives of which people?	Sardinian	Celtic	viking	franc	C	HISTORY
8	Which band was Jim Morrison a founding member of?	Genesis	Pink Floyd	Queen	Doors	D	MUSIC
9	In which African country is the Teleki volcano located?	Tanzania	Kenya	Sudan	Nigeria	B	GEOGRAPHY
10	How much is "a third and a half"?	one and a half	Three and a half	Two and a half	half past four	C	GENERAL
1	How many nights did Seherezad tell stories according to the title of the collection of tales?	998	999	1000	1001	D	LITERATURE
2	What kind of work did the Sumerians do?	financial	agricultural	pedagogical	craft industry	B	LANGUAGE
3	In which sport do they break and push?	weight-lifting	bowling	wrestling	gymnastics	A	SPORTS
4	Which hero's role did George Clooney play in the movie?	Robin Hood	Batman	Dick Tracy	Superman	B	MOVIE
5	Which branch of mathematics deals with angular functions?	algebra	trigonometry	functionally	combinatorics	B	SCIENCE
6	Which Hungarian city is called "Calvinist Rome"?	Szeged	Muddy stream	Pope	Debrecen	D	HUNGARY
7	Who wrote a symphonic poem about Mazeppa, the Cossack general?	Rimsky-Korsakov	Ferenc Liszt	Mussorgsky	Richard Strauss	B	OPERA
8	Who founded the French Order of Honor?	XIV. Louis	Napoleon	Philip Lajos	ARC. (of Navarre) Henrik	B	HISTORY
1	How does the saying express that someone belongs to us?	our bear is sorry	the calf of our cow	our hen's chick	our dog's puppy	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which animal's artificial home is the hive?	bees	they growl	wasps	silk moths	A	BIOLOGY
3	What does the jigger do?	play cards	sails	dance	ride	C	LANGUAGE
4	To which country does the island of Corfu belong?	Italy	Turkey	Spain	Greece	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	According to the hotel, what did Goethe ask for on his deathbed?	a glass of water	dissolution	power to the people	more light	D	LITERATURE
6	Which of the following is not a tributary of the Danube?	For him	Hernad	Sio	Ipoly	B	GEOGRAPHY
7	With which film did Marlene Dietrich become world famous?	The blue angel	Blonde Venus	A witness for the prosecution	The female is a devil	A	MOVIE
8	Which author wrote a piece of music entitled Carnival of Animals?	Prokofiev	Richard Strauss	Rimsky-Korsakov	Saint-Saens	D	OPERA
1	What is the name of a species of poisonous mushroom?	mosquito repellent gel	fly swatter	butterfly exterminator	lizard killer galoc	B	BIOLOGY
2	Of which does the person who commits bigamy have more than the law allows?	from house	from a bank account	from a spouse	from a passport	C	GENERAL
3	What is patchouli oil used for?	for perfume production	for cooking	for lighting	for making paints	A	GENERAL
4	What was called our price order?	priestly clothes	thin beam	lease	gendarmerie	C	LANGUAGE
5	What is the capital of Vietnam?	Pyongyang	Hanoi	Ho Chi Minh City	Hai Phong	B	COUNTRIES
6	In which mythology can we find Bacchantes?	Hindu	Germanic	Roman	Celtic	C	RELIGION
7	What kind of building is the cottage?	corn storage	shed	secret brandy distillery	shed	D	LANGUAGE
8	By what name did Beethoven's Sonata in C sharp minor become famous?	Sunbeam	Wraithlight	Windstorm	Moonlight	D	OPERA
9	What is the title of William Friedkin's classic horror film?	Satan Tango	The Exorcist	The fly	The code	B	MOVIE
1	What kind of pig is the small animal kept in the apartment called?	river	maritime	lake	channel	B	BIOLOGY
2	What does someone who buys bread buy?	bread	salami	hour	wooden vessel	A	LANGUAGE
3	In which rock opera is the song "Te kit schoseras?" song beginning with?	Star makers	Attila	Stephen the King	Jesus Christ Superstar	C	MUSIC
4	The Latin name for which metal is aurum?	ratio	aluminum	silver	copper	A	SCIENCE
5	Which of the following is not an Asian capital?	Colombo	Khartoum	Damascus	Islamabad	B	COUNTRIES
1	What do you call a clumsy hunter?	treasure hunter	sow hunter	trap hunter	bounty hunter	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do we call the adjacent sides of a right triangle?	comprehensive	catch	axis	windy	B	SCIENCE
3	What is the title of Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz's joint film comedy?	The mask	The mask	The mask	The bus	C	MOVIE
4	Which band held its farewell concert at Nyugati railway station?	Pyramid	Phonograph	Locomotive GT	V' Moto-Rock	C	MUSIC
5	What was the name of the national team captain of the Golden Team?	Rudolf Illovszky	Lajos Baroti	Gusztav Sebes	Jozsef Hoffer	C	SPORTS
6	Where did the first Komondors come to the Carpathian Basin?	From North America	From Asia	From Scandinavia	From Scotland	B	BIOLOGY
7	Tapolca, famous for its spring cave, is located in which county?	Veszprem	Somogy	Nograd	Baranya	A	HUNGARY
1	Does the ignorant man know nothing about the state of affairs, as the saying goes?	smoke	steam	bubble	his partner	B	GENERAL
2	Which animal disease is lameness?	dog	cat	Shoot	sheep	C	BIOLOGY
3	Which continent did Miklos Varga sing about in the 80s?	Africa	Europe	America	Asia	B	MUSIC
4	What is the name of the stamen inflorescence of corn?	crest	shit	cocoon	mustache	A	BIOLOGY
5	What material is the golem, the giant statue that can be brought to life according to mythology, made of?	bronze	marble	clay	tree	C	RELIGION
6	Which of the following chemical elements is not present in nitric acid?	oxygen	chlorine	nitrogen	hydrogen	B	SCIENCE
7	Who built Pharaoh Djoser's Saqqara Step Pyramid?	Hammurabi	Imhotep	Akhenaten	Nebuchadnezzar	B	HISTORY
8	Which Hungarian statesman was named iron minister?	Lajos Kossuth	Kalmant Tisza	Teleki Pal	Gabort Baross	D	HISTORY
9	What game does the knight play with Death in Ingmar Bergman's The Seventh Seal?	he plays chess	play cards	dominates	mills	A	MOVIE
1	How do you call a safe in thieves' parlance?	sorry	cat	paci	bear	D	LANGUAGE
2	According to the title of the work, which island is Stevenson's famous youth novel about?	uninhabited	cursed	treasure	tropical	C	LITERATURE
3	Which basic mathematical operation is exponentiation related to?	addition	multiplication	subtraction	division	B	SCIENCE
4	How does ET want to establish a relationship with his companions in the film?	send an email	calls home	He's texting	with space bottle mail	B	MOVIE
5	What does someone who makes yarn make?	chest	bed	fur coat	quilt	A	LANGUAGE
6	Brian Epstein was the manager of which band until his death?	The Rolling Stones	The Beatles	Queen	The Shadows	B	MUSIC
7	On which continent is Patagonia located?	Australia	Africa	Asia	South America	D	GEOGRAPHY
8	Who made the world's second space flight?	John Glenn	German Tyitov	Alexey Leonov	Michael Collins	B	TECHNIQUE
1	What was the little cockerel's hat made of in the well-known fairy tale?	of silver	of gold	of platinum	of diamond	D	LITERATURE
2	What holiday is holding hands?	christening	engagement	birthday	wedding anniversary	B	GENERAL
3	In which film did Bud Spencer and Terence Hill not star together?	A treasure that is not there	There is no two without four	And we get angry again	Piedone, the cop	D	MOVIE
4	What weapon was called a flintlock?	hunting dagger	revolver	rifle	cannon	C	TECHNIQUE
5	How many regular triangles border an octahedron?	4	6	8	12	C	SCIENCE
6	What is the manual keyboard of the organ called?	manual	manuscript	mane	manipulator	A	LANGUAGE
1	What do you jokingly call when one of your body parts goes numb?	he's getting laid	he is dogged	he gets mad	it's going crazy	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is a pastry made from cake dough?	a tailor	miller's house	blacksmith	colander	B	KITCHEN
3	What does a university student do when he takes a colloquium?	listening to a lecture	changes major	is taking an exam	enrolls	C	LANGUAGE
4	The city of Lcse, also known for its "white woman", is located in the territory of which present-day country?	Croatia	Romania	Slovenia	Slovakia	D	GEOGRAPHY
5	Which band created a big sensation with their song "Babu voyd" at the Dance Song Festival in 1981?	LGT	URG	Ltd	VHK	C	MUSIC
6	Who was the leader of the Greeks at the Battle of Marathon?	Leonidas	Miltiades	Themistocles	Pericles	B	HISTORY
7	Where is the house according to the title of Karoly Makk's famous film?	under elms	under rocks	under hills	under leaves	B	MOVIE
8	Who won the 2001 US Open women's singles final?	Jennifer Capriati	Martina Hingis	Lindsay Davenport	Venus Williams	D	SPORTS
1	What is a person of solid character like?	palmed	footed	brainy	vertebrate	D	LANGUAGE
2	How does the vernacular express it when we underestimate something because we couldn't get it?	Peppers are hot	The pear was withered	The grapes are sour	The apple is a worm	C	LANGUAGE
3	What is sarabolo used for?	for making barrels	for pruning trees	for hoeing	for bell casting	C	GENERAL
4	Which theater building in Budapest is not on the same street?	Budapest Operetta Theatre	Microscope Stage	Radnot Theater	Comedy theater	D	THEATER
5	Which of the following countries does Slovenia not have a border with?	Austria	Yugoslavia	Hungary	Croatia	B	GEOGRAPHY
6	Which occupation is in the title of Zeller's operetta?	fisherman	hunter	canadian	birdwatcher	D	OPERA
7	Which of the following is a non-Germanic language?	frieze	Yiddish	Longobard	sold	D	LANGUAGE
1	How does the saying express when we entrust a task to the wrong person?	the carrot	honey for teddy bear	squirrel the peanuts	the cabbage for the goat	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which word represents a type of flour?	lining	Strudel	fiery	kuglof	B	KITCHEN
3	What is pomade used for?	for face rice powder	as a hair pomade	for nail painting	as jewelry	B	GENERAL
4	A world-famous French scandal is connected to the construction of what?	Suez Canal	Panama Chanel	Eiffel Tower	Center Pompidou	B	GENERAL
5	From which country does Vangelis, the world-famous musician, come?	Spain	Greece	India	Mexico	B	MUSIC
6	What is the main component of dynamite?	potassium sulfate	nitroglycerin	sulfur dioxide	NaCl	B	SCIENCE
7	What profession did Mihaly Munkacsy learn before becoming a painter?	hourly	joiner	barber	notary	B	ART
8	Did Sergei Eisenstein make a historical film about his "knight"?	ice fields	steppes	glaciers	mountain peaks	A	MOVIE
1	What kind of young man is called langaleta?	smart	acne prone	slow	high	D	GENERAL
2	What's out of the bag, as the saying goes, when someone reveals their true goals?	the cat	the angle	the coal	the potatoes	B	LANGUAGE
3	Which tree can be prefixed with "sad"?	oak	acacia	fire	pine	C	GENERAL
4	Why is "romance" in the title of Michael Douglas' adventure film?	emerald	ruby	diamond	Pearl	A	MOVIE
5	In which country is the Masurian Lake Ridge located?	Finland	Italy	Poland	Spain	C	GEOGRAPHY
6	What kind of living things are mages?	marsupial rodents	Pisces	tropical birds	plants	D	BIOLOGY
1	Why can a very gentle person do no harm, according to the saying?	to a wasp	for spiders	to be	for a ladybug	C	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is cut with pruning shears?	aluminum	sheep's wool	vine	clothing material	C	GENERAL
3	What kind of Lawrence is the title character in David Lean's classic adventure film?	African	Arabic	nile	desert	B	MOVIE
4	Which railway border station Szob leads to our neighboring state?	Croatia	Slovakia	Romania	Slovenia	B	GEOGRAPHY
5	What fate is in the title of Solohov's novel?	vindictive	human	thinking	unpredictable	B	LITERATURE
6	The Latin name for which chemical element is plumbum?	you	platinum	lead	hydrogen	C	SCIENCE
7	In which modern-day state is Waterloo located?	Great Britain	Belgium	Germany	The Netherlands	B	GEOGRAPHY
8	What kind of sauce are the meats prepared in the Bakony way?	sausage	mushroomy	green peas	hepatic	B	KITCHEN
9	According to the Bible, how old was Sarah when she gave birth to Isaac?	75	90	120	333	B	RELIGION
10	Which actress-singer won an Oscar for her performance in the movie "Moon Sicks"?	Gloria Estefan	Whitney Houston	Madonna	Cher	D	MOVIE
11	Which artist created during the quattrocento period?	Giotto	Donatello	Bernini	Tintoretto	B	ART
1	What beats a pig, according to the well-known saying?	lot of fat	a lot of bulls	many geese	many piglets	C	LANGUAGE
2	What kind of vegetable is called that is made from peas and vegetables?	tasty	fine	squeamish	crap	B	KITCHEN
3	What vehicle is in the title of the well-known Krudy work?	blue conflis	brown hero	red mail van	yellow Submarine	C	LITERATURE
4	What is the title of one of Rodolfo's books?	Beware, cheats!	Illusion is my love	Beware, Dazzle!	Just watch my hand!	A	GENERAL
5	What is the full title of Robert Koltai's film: "Football, or..."	Workers fist, iron fist	Like the squirrel up the tree	Long live the first of May!	Brother Puskas is the king	C	MOVIE
6	The former port of Fiume is located in the territory of which present-day country?	Bosnia and Herzegovina	Slovenia	Croatia	Italy	C	GEOGRAPHY
7	According to the Bible, in which city did Jesus grow up?	Jerusalem	Bethlehem	Jericho	Nazareth	D	RELIGION
8	What kind of love did Manuel de Falla write a ballet about?	secret	magic	sore	happy	B	ART
9	According to Greek mythology, Agamemnon was the king of which city?	Sparta	Mycenae	Pylos	Mytilene	B	RELIGION
1	How much bigger was the mosquito I caught according to the verse?	at a sideboard	at a horse	at a mountain	at a house	B	LANGUAGE
2	How many public appearances of an actor are called debuts?	first	centuries	five hundredths	thousandths	A	THEATER
3	What kind of natural disaster is an accompanying phenomenon?	earthquake	fire	hurricane	flooding	D	GENERAL
4	Which of the following skis?	cylinder	pyramid	trapeze	prism	C	SCIENCE
5	Which country's currency is the yuan?	China	Japan	Vietnam	South Korea	A	GENERAL
1	According to the saying, what is "lined" by the lecherous, empty-headed person?	with hay	with wind	with coal	with fur	B	LANGUAGE
2	How does the saying that something depends on two people express?	It takes two sides to negotiate.	Two do the business.	The fair stands for two.	The shop was cut in two.	C	LANGUAGE
3	How much is a pint of beer?	two deciliters	three deciliters	half a liter	one liter	A	GENERAL
4	What stone is in the title of the well-known Ady poem?	thrown up and down	falling into a dry well	polished by running water	fire extinguisher	A	LITERATURE
5	Which football team won the 2001 Champions League final?	Valencia	Real Madrid	Bayern Munich	Liverpool	C	SPORTS
6	In which German city is the Wagner Festival held every summer?	Leipzig	Bayreuth	Munich	Weimar	B	OPERA
7	What is the capital of South Africa?	Cape Town	Pretoria	Johannesburg	Durban	B	COUNTRIES
8	In which city can you see the herm of St. Laszlo?	in Budapest	in Szekesfehervar	in Gyr	in Esztergom	C	HUNGARY
1	What does Katona call Jozsef Biberach in Bank ban?	riotous trapper	lazy ritter	heat buzzing cockle	wrestling jeans	B	LITERATURE
2	Who is seated at the so-called cat table?	hungover guests	children	untalented musicians	road pavers	B	GENERAL
3	What is the title of Zsuzsa Cserhati's famous hit: "Szaguldas, ..."	Wartburg, love	Jaguar, love	Trabant, love	Porsche, love	D	MUSIC
4	What is the name of a famous theater building in London?	Uncle Sam	Old Vic	Old Black Joe	Old McDonald	B	THEATER
5	Which of the following settlements is not a border station?	Rajka	Redic	Roszke	Crayfish	D	HUNGARY
6	The film starring Peter Rudolf was named after which dance?	rock and roll	rumba	tango	cha-cha-cha	D	MOVIE
7	Who owns the hotel? "I think, therefore I am."	Pascal	Descartes	Montesquieu	Montaigne	B	GENERAL
8	In which of our settlements is the original copy of the foundation letter of the Tihany Abbey kept?	Gyor	Pannon pile	Tihany	Esztergom	B	HUNGARY
1	What was the name of the tiny dot worn on the face as a matter of fashion?	beauty patch	charm sticker	swag bag	band-aid	A	GENERAL
2	What do they do with rice?	they drink it	they play music with it	they eat it	they travel on it	C	LANGUAGE
3	Who can be seen in the musical film Miska Magnas?	Count Pixi and Mixi	Hacsek and Sajo	Aristide and Tassilo	Jen and Lujza	A	MOVIE
4	What is cashmere made of?	deerskin	made of wool	made of silk	snake skin	B	BIOLOGY
5	Which infectious disease is named in the title of one of Peter Gardos' films?	Chicken pox	Chicken pox	Whooping cough	Diphtheria	C	MOVIE
6	Where did the prophet flee from Mecca in 622 during the so-called "Run of Muhammad"?	To Basra	To Medina	To Damascus	to Isfahan	B	HISTORY
7	Which composer wrote three overtures entitled Leonora?	Rossini	Beethoven	Verdi	Schubert	B	OPERA
8	Which excellence of England did Mihaly Munkacsy paint among his daughters?	Tamas Morus	Cromwell	Milton	Elizabeth I	C	FINE ARTS
1	What kind of comedian do you call the funny character of the operettas?	wrinkled	song	dancer	notation	C	GENERAL
2	What did the shop originally do?	with trading	with wine production	by farming	by making clothes	A	GENERAL
3	Which one do you play rex with?	with cues and balls	with a card	with puppets and a game board	with millstones	A	GAME
4	With which actress did Andras Kern make a joint album?	Polite Dorothy	With Judit Hernadi	With Eniko Eszenyi	Basti with Juli	B	GENERAL
5	What is the title of a well-known Shakespeare play?	Spring story	Summer saying	Autumn legend	Winter rege	D	LITERATURE
6	What "relationship" is in the title of the Oscar-winning movie starring Gene Hackman?	Belgian	Sicilian	French	Maltese	C	MOVIE
7	When did the Hungarian language become the official language of public administration, legislation and education in our country?	During the time of Gabor Bethlen	II. During the time of Ferenc Rakoczi	in the reform era	during World War I	C	HISTORY
8	King Fejszal was the ruler of which country?	Jordan	Morocco	Saudi Arabia	Ethiopia	C	HISTORY
9	Which work does the hotel come from? "Crazy talk, but there's a system to it."	Othello	Oedipus the King	Hamlet	The Tragedy of Man	C	LITERATURE
1	What is the bad feeling associated with a hangover called?	dog trouble	Ouch	godenyhh	pharyngeal finger	B	GENERAL
2	What is Mackenna in the title of Gregory Peck's classic western?	pistol	gold	his horse	dollar	B	MOVIE
3	Which part of a house does someone who tries to get to the basement go to?	to the attic	basement	into the attic	to the terrace	B	GENERAL
4	To which country is the activity of the Ku-Klux-Klan connected?	USA	Italy	Republic of South Africa	Japan	A	GENERAL
5	The Prado is a world-famous museum in which city?	Florence	Barcelona	Venice	Madrid	D	GENERAL
6	What is the raw material of pearl?	quartz	limestone	rock salt	aquamarine	B	SCIENCE
1	What do we say to a person who repeats nonsense?	says purples	he speaks greens	gossiping reds	frothy foam	B	GENERAL
2	What did the one who wore the helmet wear?	top coat	hat	boots	pants	A	GENERAL
3	In which city were the 2001 European Water Polo Championships held?	Berlin	Vienna	Belgrade	Budapest	D	SPORTS
4	In which modern country is Besztercebanya located?	Slovakia	Ukraine	Czech Republic	Slovenia	A	COUNTRIES
5	In which theater has Geza Hofi held his solo shows since 1983?	Comedy theater	Fun Stage	Microscope Stage	Madach Chamber	D	THEATER
6	Which of the following is the title of a cycle of poems by Lrinc Szabo?	Little night music	Chamber music	Cat music	Cricket music	D	LITERATURE
7	What is Sparafucile's occupation in Verdi's Rigoletto?	conjurer	assassin	bullfighter	chief inquisitor	B	OPERA
8	Which pharaoh's pyramid is not one of the Giza pyramids?	Cheops	Mukerinos	Khephre	Josser	D	HISTORY
9	Where does the St. Lawrence River flow?	Atlantic Ocean	Gulf of Mexico	Pacific ocean	Caribean sea	A	GEOGRAPHY
10	In which film did Barbra Streisand play the lead role in her own direction?	Funny Girl	Hello Dolly!	What's up doc?	Yentl	D	MOVIE
1	What kind of "jancsi" is the famous figure of Hungarian puppet shows?	thrush	paprika	spinning wheel	eggplant	B	ART
2	What does someone who bakes make?	roast rooster	roast pork	roast lamb	roast beef	A	KITCHEN
3	What is the flavor of the Swedish mushroom salad?	tuna	with mayonnaise	tomato	horseradish	C	KITCHEN
4	Which is the longest river in Europe?	Volga	Rhine	Elba	Danube	A	GEOGRAPHY
5	What is the title of a rock opera written by Levente Szorenyi and Janos Brody?	The outcast	The damned	The cursed one	The rejected	B	MUSIC
6	For which work was Salman Rushdie sentenced to death in several Islamic countries?	Midnight's Children	Shame	Satanic poems	The last sigh of the Moor	C	LITERATURE
7	Which boxer among the following won the Olympic heavyweight championship three times?	Joe Frazier	Teofilo Stevenson	George Foreman	Wladimir Klitschko	B	SPORTS
8	What was Harrison Ford innocently accused of as the protagonist of The Fugitive?	embezzlement	with murder	jewelry robbery	with treason	B	MOVIE
9	Which Hungarian composer wrote an opera based on Garcia Lorca's play Vernasz?	Emil Petrovich	Zoltan Kodaly	Sandor Szokolay	Zsolt Durko	C	OPERA
1	Which clothing name matches the name of a well-known Hungarian cartoon dog?	thong	bikini	tailcoat	overalls	C	MOVIE
2	What is the drink called capuchiner made of?	from tea	from fruit juice	from coffee	barber	C	KITCHEN
3	Where did Sandor Petfi go when he started at Pilvax?	to press	to a coffee house	to the casino	to newspaper editorial office	B	HISTORY
4	Which star of Heti Hetes plays the main role in the play The Dog Called Mr. Bozzi?	Henrik Havas	Laszlo Jakso	Istvan Verebes	Imre Bajor	C	THEATER
5	The flames of which city are mentioned in the title of Asafyev's ballet?	Moscow	Paris	Rome	London	B	ART
6	In which country did they experiment with the "Great Leap Forward" policy between 1958-61?	Cuba	China	Soviet Union	Yugoslavia	B	HISTORY
7	In which discipline did Jen Wigner receive the Nobel Prize?	medicine	physics	economics	chemistry	B	SCIENCE
8	Since when has women's dueling been included in the Olympics?	Los Angeles 1984	Barcelona 1992	Atlanta 1996	Sydney 2000	C	SPORTS
1	Which martial tool is "deaf" according to the proverb?	musket	Cannon	surface-to-surface missile	bayonet	B	GENERAL
2	What is the name of a soup noodle?	acacia leaf	strawberry leaf	needle leaf	Oak Leaf	B	KITCHEN
3	What is the major's favorite occupation in the play orkeny Totek?	macrame weaving	packaging	lead soldier casting	beading	B	LITERATURE
4	Soho is a well-known entertainment district of which city?	Tokyo	Paris	London	Berlin	C	COUNTRIES
5	Which Hungarian dance singer sang about a lead soldier?	Zsuzsa Koncz	Soldier Clari	Zsuzsa Cserhati	Kati Kovacs	B	MUSIC
6	Maori are the indigenous people of which country?	Haiti	New Zealand	Republic of South Africa	Philippines	B	COUNTRIES
7	What did the millimeter sell?	poultry	milk	coal	hat	B	LANGUAGE
8	What nationality was Nobel laureate physicist Niels Bohr?	German	Swedish	English	Danish	D	SCIENCE
9	What "date" is in the title of Alfred Hitchcock's famous film?	Berlin	killer	London	fatal	C	MOVIE
1	According to the well-known Hungarian rhyme, where do we end up after the walk?	on a green meadow	on a beautiful mountain	in a big chair	on a small hill	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which of the following is a mushroom name?	snap	rascal	scrolls	he puffs	D	BIOLOGY
3	What does he who performs a couplet do?	juggle	recites a monologue	performs a pantomime number	sings	D	ART
4	What family ties linked Liszt to Wagner?	his father-in-law	his brother-in-law	his cousin	uncle	A	OPERA
5	Who fought in B.C. The Battle of Marathon in 490?	Romans and Persians	Romans and Punics	Greeks and Persians	Greeks and Punics	C	HISTORY
6	Which of the following is not a city on the Danube?	My mosquito	Hops	Mohacs	Paks	B	GEOGRAPHY
7	Which footballer won the Ballon d'Or in 2000?	Zinedine Zidane	Luis Figo	Rivaldo	Andrey Shevchenko	B	SPORTS
8	In which continent is the Limpopo river located?	Africa	Asia	South America	Australia	A	GEOGRAPHY
9	Oliver Stone's The Section is set in which war?	Gulf War	II. world War	vietnam war	korean war	C	MOVIE
10	Who among the following has never been the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences?	Zoltan Kodaly	Kalman Kando	Lorand Eotvos	Basket Domokos	B	SCIENCE
11	On which space station did Bertalan Farkas do his research?	Salute-6	What	Skylab	Salute-3	A	SCIENCE
1	What kind of fruit is a plum?	leathery	hairy	bone shell	cinnamon	C	BIOLOGY
2	According to the saying, what does a good person bathe in?	in water and honey	in beer and wine	in milk and butter	in snow and ice	C	LANGUAGE
3	Which of our counties is not located in Transdanubia?	Baranya	Zala	Fierce	Head	C	GEOGRAPHY
4	What does the hairdresser do with the hair when he plasters it?	paints	embalm	cut	dries it	C	GENERAL
5	Which musical trend can be found in the name of Hobo's band?	country	blues	rap	reggae	B	MUSIC
6	Who was Schiller's world-famous literary friend and colleague during the Weimar years?	Rilke	Goethe	Heine	Holderlin	B	LITERATURE
7	What is it called IV. King Philip of France?	Bold Philip	Nice Philip	Fierce Philip	Bald Philip	B	HISTORY
8	In which year was the first Formula 1 race held at the Hungaroring?	1982	1986	1989	1993	B	SPORTS
9	What is the title of a cartoon directed by Jozsef Nepp?	Sleeping Beauty	Cinderella	Snow white	Red and the wolf	C	MOVIE
10	Where is the UN International Labor Organization (ILO) headquartered?	Paris	Lausanne	Geneva	new York	C	GENERAL
1	Which old means of transport is also the title of a Petfi poem?	eight-dog sled	four-oxed cart	two-horse buggy	one-ass cord	B	LITERATURE
2	Who was called an impostor in the old language?	versatile scientist	postman	swindler, scoundrel	strass, doorman	C	LANGUAGE
3	What kind of game is Thief?	card game	checkers game	Chess game	domino game	A	GAME
4	With what title did Miklos Jancso not make a film?	Silence and shouting	Dissolution and binding	Whispers and screams	Stars, soldiers	C	MOVIE
5	Slovakia does not have a border with which of the following countries?	Romania	Austria	Czech Republic	Poland	A	COUNTRIES
6	Who brought together those who wanted to get married urgently in Gretna Green?	the baker	the colander	the blacksmith	the dean	C	GENERAL
7	In which city were the 11th Paralympic Games held in 2000?	in London	in Sydney	in Tokyo	in Atlanta	B	SPORTS
8	Who is the author of the historical novel Cold Days?	Peter Esterhazy	Imre Kertesz	Miklos Meszoly	Tibor Cseres	D	LITERATURE
9	Who was Jacob's brother in the Bible?	Isaac	Moses	Joseph	Esau	D	RELIGION
10	On which island does Bizet's opera Pearl Fishers take place?	Capri	Java	Ceylon	Taiwan	C	OPERA
1	What is the name of a meat product?	Cologne	Parisian	Roman	Warsaw	B	KITCHEN
2	Which of the following is the name of a literary style element expressing the mystery of a genre?	ancient splendor	lyrical spark	balladic obscurity	dramatic cloud	C	LITERATURE
3	What lady did Puccini write an opera about?	English	Count	butterfly	old	C	OPERA
4	In which of our counties is the landscape unit named Gocsej located?	Bacs-Kiskun	Somogy	Zala	peaceful	C	HUNGARY
5	How many "narrow" and "plenty" years can we read about in the Bible?	three	seven	ten	twelve	B	RELIGION
6	Which of the following is called buckwheat?	decorative heads	plucked instrument	type of vessel	plant species	D	LANGUAGE
7	Which film director was a member of the legendary group Monty Python?	Mel Brooks	Terry Gilliam	Quentin Tarantino	Woody Allen	B	MOVIE
8	In the 1960s, concrete defense, the "catenaccio", was characteristic of which football team?	Fiorentina	Juventus	International	AC Milan	C	SPORTS
9	Where can you see Buddenbrook House, known from the Thomas Mann novel?	in Hamburg	in Geneva	in Lubeck	in Leipzig	C	LITERATURE
10	What is the name of a type of kangaroo?	horse head	cactus eater	wooden swimmer	deaf	C	BIOLOGY
11	In which Wagner opera does King Henrik Madarasz appear?	Tannhauser	The planet is Dutch	Lohengrin	Tristan and Isolde	C	OPERA
1	What kind of vehicle was the conflict?	horse carriage	ox cart	foot carriage	steam car	A	GENERAL
2	As the saying goes, what remains while the word goes?	thought	fun	appetite	writing	D	LANGUAGE
3	Which composer's notable work is Bolero?	Ravel	Ferenc Liszt	Berlioz	Debussy	A	OPERA
4	How many players from a team compete in water polo at the same time?	5	6	7	8	C	SPORTS
1	What is the name of a cake?	rabbit spine	venison loin	lamb loin	mountain ridge	B	KITCHEN
2	What is the name of Susu, the descendant of the dragon in the continuation of the tale?	Norbert	Jerome	Smart	Susuke	D	LITERATURE
3	Which flower is said to be modest?	Narcissus	daisy	forget your name	violet	D	LANGUAGE
4	In which century did III. Bela?	10.	12.	14.	16.	B	HISTORY
5	Where are French and Flemish official languages?	Andorra	Liechtenstein	Luxembourg	Belgium	D	COUNTRIES
6	Which movie hero did Christopher Reeve become world famous for?	James Bond	Phantom	Zoro	Superman	D	MOVIE
7	How long did the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy exist?	377	207	69	51	D	HISTORY
8	What kind of filling are used for meat dishes prepared in the Stefania style?	with Parisian	with cheese	with ham	with eggs	D	KITCHEN
9	Rock musician Tibor Tatrai is a virtuoso of which instrument?	drum	piano	saxophone	guitar	D	MUSIC
10	In which month are the Nobel Prizes awarded each year?	in January	in March	in October	in December	D	SCIENCE
1	What kind of "nail" is a quotation mark called?	Lion	dog	cat	mole	C	GENERAL
2	On which hill in Budapest is the Citadel located?	Gellert hill	Janos-hegy	Szechenyi Hill	Castle Hill	A	HUNGARY
3	Wagner wrote an opera about the master singers of which city?	Munich	Hamburg	Nuremberg	Bayreuth	C	OPERA
4	In which country do Flemings and Walloons live?	France	Belgium	Germany	Denmark	B	COUNTRIES
5	Which one is called a trench coat?	short-legged hunter	coat type	vault	training shoes	B	LANGUAGE
6	What literary genre is fable?	grave poem	a lesson	letter novel	lullaby	B	LANGUAGE
7	What animal is Dorka Dargay in Attila Dargay's cartoon The Captain of the Forest?	Bruin	cat	fawn	little mouse	A	MOVIE
8	Which name is not of Turkish-Hungarian origin?	Zoltan	Geza	Ors	Laszlo	D	LANGUAGE
1	What does a braggart do?	fiftieth	sixtieth	seventieth	eightieth	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is the part of the brain made up of nerve cells called?	black	red	brown	gray	D	BIOLOGY
3	The heroes of which fairy tale are featured in the Disney animated film The Tiger Rises?	The Jungle Book	Aladdin	Alice in Wonderland	Winnie the Pooh	D	MOVIE
4	What does someone who eats smarni eat?	rice puffs	fried potatoes	Caesar crumble	smoked fish	C	KITCHEN
5	What kind of bird's wedding is in the title of a well-known Ady poem?	eagle	shell	vulture	blood clot	B	LITERATURE
6	Where did Miklos Horthy die?	in Portugal	in Spain	in Brazil	in Argentina	A	HISTORY
7	Bonn, the former capital of Germany, is located on the banks of which river?	Rhine	Elba	Maina	Mosel	A	GEOGRAPHY
8	Who plays an obese, half-deaf cop in the crime film Cop Land?	Arnold Schwarzenegger	Sylvester Stallone	Bruce Willis	Telly Savalas	B	MOVIE
9	Which of our great poets was born in Felsiszkaz?	Janos Pilinszky	Laszlo Nagy	Janos Vajda	Gyula Illyes	B	LITERATURE
1	As the saying goes, who really laughs?	who laughs out loud	he laughs squealingly	who laughs to himself	who laughs last	D	LANGUAGE
2	Which country was not a member of the kisantant?	Romania	Czechoslovakia	Yugoslavia	Switzerland	D	HISTORY
3	Which of the following deities belongs to Germanic mythology?	Amon-Re	Shiva	Minerva	Thor	D	RELIGION
4	Who was Josephine de Beauharnais married to?	XIV. Louis	XVI. Louis	Napoleon I	III. Napoleon	C	HISTORY
5	From which country did the island of Taiwan secede in 1949?	India	Japan	Philippines	China	D	HISTORY
6	What instrument was Pablo Casals an artist?	piano	viola	violin	cello	D	OPERA
7	Which discipline was not included in the ancient seven liberal arts?	arithmetic	astronomy	mechanics	geometry	C	HISTORY
8	In which city can you see the Gizella Chapel?	in Veszprem	Szekesfehervarto	in Gyr	in Eger	A	HUNGARY
1	How does the saying continue? "He understood as much as..."	horse for arithmetic	snail for letter casting	hen to the alphabet	kitten for algebra	C	LANGUAGE
2	What is fregolite used for?	for storing dishes	for drying clothes	for afternoon rest	for baking cakes	B	GENERAL
3	How old is the centenary?	ten	twenty	fifty	hundred	D	LANGUAGE
4	Who did Gyula Bordogi shape as the main character of Peter Muller's play Sad Sunday?	Danko Pista	Jancsit Rigo	Seress Rezs	Imret Kalman	C	THEATER
5	Jean-Paul Belmondo did not star in which famous film?	Cop or chicken catcher	The Rio adventure	On the loose in Venice	A man and a woman	D	MOVIE
6	What is another name for sweet potato?	star pumpkins	yarrow tail	sweet potato	asparagus	C	BIOLOGY
1	What is the proverbial market fly like?	fat	naughty	loud	satiated	B	LANGUAGE
2	What do we define with a metronome?	the speed of subway trains	the depth of the rivers	the pollution of cities	the tempo of the musical works	D	LANGUAGE
3	Which prefix expresses a connection with air and airy bodies?	poly-	thermo-	aero	paleo-	C	LANGUAGE
4	What is the Hungarian name for grapefruit?	grapefruit	citrate	citranella	citronate	A	BIOLOGY
5	Which singer was John Travolta's partner in the film Pomade?	Madonna	Olivia Newton-John	Whitney Houston	Cher	B	MOVIE
6	Which US city has never hosted the Summer Olympics?	Los Angeles	Atlanta	Saint Louis	San Francisco	D	SPORTS
7	The newton is the SI unit of which physical concept?	force	performance	electric charge	amount of heat	A	SCIENCE
8	Which royal title is also the name of a card game?	tsar	Khan	Pharaoh	sultan	C	LANGUAGE
9	Richard Attenborough made an Oscar-winning film about whose life?	Mahatma Gandhi	Albert Schweitzer	Martin Luther King	Mother Theresa	A	MOVIE
1	According to the saying, what does the person who recognizes cunning see through?	on the tinted glass	on thick facial skin	on the mosquito net	on the sieve	D	LANGUAGE
2	What is etiquette a collection of?	antique coins	butterflies	rules of etiquette	family memories	C	GENERAL
3	What kind of animal is it?	insect	fish	bird	mammal	C	BIOLOGY
4	Which of the following can be seen on the five-forint coin?	bird	crest	flower	flag	A	GENERAL
5	Who was Saint Stephen's Peter Orseolo, the second Hungarian king?	son	his grandson	his brother	nephew	D	HISTORY
6	Who did Val Kilmer portray in The Doors?	Van Morrison	Jimi Hendrix	Jim Morrison	Jimmy Page	C	MUSIC
7	What was the title of Attila Jozsef's last volume published during his lifetime?	Teachings	Suburban night	Really hurts	Air!	C	LITERATURE
8	Which painter among the following is not Italian?	Caravaggio	Tiepolo	Mantegna	Murillo	D	FINE ARTS
9	At which Olympics did we win only one gold medal?	Athens 1896	Paris 1900	London 1908	Amsterdam 1928	B	SPORTS
10	According to the Bible, how many sons did Noah have?	two	three	seven	ten	B	RELIGION
1	What are the nerves of the person with a very calm nature, according to the saying?	from shoelaces	from steel wire	of rope	from Damil	C	GENERAL
2	What kind of honey do you call a spongy, stretchy candy?	Persian	Bulgarian	Greek	Turkish	D	KITCHEN
3	Which of the following is not a Greek mythological figure?	Hephaestus	Epimetheus	Creon	Vishnu	D	RELIGION
4	What animals does Bambi fight in the Disney cartoon?	with wolves	with dogs	with bears	with cougars	B	MOVIE
5	Which of the following instruments is not in the string quartet?	viola	violin	double bass	cello	C	OPERA
6	According to the title of the well-known Hungarian film, what do the twins eat for breakfast?	the Scorpio	the Aquarius	the lion	the Sagittarius	A	MOVIE
7	Which country is divided in two by the Cook Strait?	Philippines	Malaysia	New Zealand	Indonesia	C	GEOGRAPHY
8	Which of the following is a plant?	shepherd's ring	shepherd's bag	shepherd's whistle	I'm a shepherd	B	BIOLOGY
9	Who wrote the poems for Janos Pongrac Kacsoh's play The Valiant?	Beautiful Ern	Jen Heltai	Lrinc Szabo	Sandor Brody	B	LITERATURE
1	What do you call a person with an insensitive, indifferent face?	concrete head	flat face	basalt face	tin can	B	LANGUAGE
2	What did Lajos Kossuth lack when his regiment ran out?	patience	money	circle of friends	his army	D	LANGUAGE
3	How long did the German Democratic Republic exist?	71	61	51	41	D	HISTORY
4	By what master name do we know a painter whose only monogram has survived?	ME	SK	MS	SM S	C	FINE ARTS
5	Who is Janos Kodolanyi's The Burning Lacebush about?	About friend Julianus	About Moses	About Saint John the Baptist	About Saint Laszlo	B	LITERATURE
6	In which county is Nagykanizsa located?	Zala	Baranya	Somogy	Iron	A	HUNGARY
7	What dance is featured in Ponchielli's opera Gioconda?	hours	nutcrackers	hats	statues	A	OPERA
1	What does the speech compare a perfectly healthy person to?	to a hedgehog	to chestnuts	to a butterfly	to acorns	D	LANGUAGE
2	What is the name of a band today?	Ground runners	Stirrup runners	Amok runners	Hurdle runners	C	MUSIC
3	What was the name of the French metropolitan revolutionary council that existed for a short time in 1871?	Council Republic of Lyon	provisional of Rouen	Marseilles Union	Paris Commune	D	HISTORY